>> Woodruff: MISSOURI'S NATIONAL
GUARD HAVE BEEN DEPLOYED IN
FERGUSON AFTER ANOTHER NIGHT OF
VIOLENCE AND A PRIVATE AUTOPSY
SUGGESTS MICHAEL BROWN WAS SHOT
AT LEAST SIX TIMES, TWICE IN THE
HEAD.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, IN
NORTHERN IRAQ, KURDISH MILITARY
FORCES TAKE BACK CONTROL OF
AREAS RECENTLY SEIZED BY ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
MARGARET WARNER REPORTS FROM THE
FRONT LINES ON WHY MOST
DISPLACED IRAQIS STILL REFUSE TO
RETURN TO THEIR HOMES.
PLUS, GIVING TEACHERS THE KEYS
TO THEIR SCHOOLS.
WHERE CURRICULUM, BUDGET,
HIRING, AND MORE ARE DECIDED BY
CONSENSUS RATHER THAN A
PRINCIPAL.
>> YOU HAVE TO TRUST THAT
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE CLOSEST
TO THE CHILD ARE WORKING IN
A CAPACITY OF EXCELLENCE.
YOU HAVE TO TRUST THAT THEY
KNOW CHILDREN WELL, AND ARE
TAKING CHILDREN WHERE THEY
NEED TO GO.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE VIOLENCE
PLAGUING FERGUSON, MISSOURI
SPARKED NEW INITIATIVES TODAY.
THE GOVERNOR DEPLOYED THE
NATIONAL GUARD, AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA ANNOUNCED HE'S SENDING IN.
IT'S ALL AIMED AT RESTORING CALM
AFTER THE SHOOTING OF AN UNARMED
BLACK TEENAGER BY A WHITE
POLICEMAN
THE DECISION TO CALL OUT THE
NATIONAL GUARD WAS THE LATEST
EFFORT TO QUELL THE VIOLENCE IN
FERGUSON.
LAST NIGHT, POLICE AGAIN USED
TEAR GAS AND RUBBER BULLETS TO
BREAK UP A CROWD AFTER REPORTS
OF GUNFIRE, FIREBOMBS AND
LOOTING.
HIGHWAY PATROL CAPTAIN RON
JOHNSON.
>> THERE WERE MULTIPLE
ADDITIONAL REPORTS OF MOLOTOV
COCKTAILS BEING THROWN.
POLICE WERE SHOT AT.
MAKESHIFT BARRICADES WERE SET UP
TO BLOCK POLICE.
BOTTLES AND ROCKETS WERE THROWN
AT POLICE.
BASED ON THESE CONDITIONS, I HAD
NO ALTERNATIVE TO ELEVATE THE
LEVEL OF OUR RESPONSE.
>> Woodruff: HOURS LATER, IN HIS
STATEMENT DEPLOYING THE GUARD,
MISSOURI GOVERNOR JAY NIXON
CONDEMNED THE UNREST, SAYING:
>> THESE VIOLENT ACTS ARE A
DISSERVICE TO THE FAMILY OF
MICHAEL BROWN AND HIS MEMORY AND
TO THE PEOPLE OF THIS COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: THIS AFTERNOON, AS
GUARD MEMBERS ARRIVED, GOVERNOR
NIXON ANNOUNCED THEIR ROLE WILL
BE LIMITED.
HE ALSO LIFTED THE TWO DAY OLD
CURFEW.
MEANWHILE, ATTORNEYS FOR MICHAEL
BROWN'S FAMILY RELEASED THE
RESULTS OF A PRIVATELY CONDUCTED
AUTOPSY.
>> THEY DID NOT WANT TO BE LEFT
HAVING TO RELY ON THE AUTOPSY
DONE BY THE ST. LOUIS AGENCIES,
THE SAME INDIVIDUALS THEY FEEL
ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR EXECUTING
THEIR SON IN BROAD DAYLIGHT.
>> Woodruff: FORMER NEW YORK
CITY CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER
MICHAEL BADEN AND FORENSIC
PATHOLOGIST SHAWN PARCELLS FOUND
THE 18-YEAR-OLD WAS SHOT SIX
TIMES.
>> WE'VE GOT ONE TO THE VERY TOP
OF THE HEAD, THE APEX.
WE'VE GOT ONE THAT ENTERED JUST
ABOVE THE RIGHT EYEBROW.
WE'VE GOT ONE THAT ENTERED THE
TOP PART OF THE RIGHT ARM.
WE'VE GOT A GRAZE WOUND, A
SUPERFICIAL GRAZE WOUND, TO THE
MIDDLE PART OF THE RIGHT ARM.
WE'VE GOT A WOUND THAT ENTERED
THE MEDIAL ASPECT OF THE RIGHT
ARM, AND WE'VE GOT A DEEP GRAZE
WOUND THAT PRODUCED A LACERATION
TO THE PALM OF THE RIGHT HAND.
>> Woodruff: POLICE OFFICER
DARREN WILSON FIRED THOSE SHOTS
DURING A CONFRONTATION ON AUGUST
NINTH.
PARCELLS COULD NOT SAY WITH
CERTAINTY IF THE WOUNDS
INDICATED BROWN WAS FACING
WILSON OR IF HE HAD HIS HANDS
RAISED, AS WITNESSES HAVE SAID,
BUT HE DID SAY THIS:
>> DR. BADEN AND I DO FEEL,
BECAUSE OF THE TWO GUNSHOT
WOUNDS TO THE HEAD, INDICATING
THAT MR. BROWN WAS BENDING OVER
AS THEY WERE COMING DOWN, THAT
THOSE TWO SHOTS WERE MOST LIKELY
THE LAST TWO TO OCCUR TO HIM.
>> Woodruff: THE AUTOPSY ALSO
FOUND NO GUNSHOT RESIDUE,
INDICATING THE GUN WAS FIRED
FROM MORE THAN TWO FEET AWAY.
POLICE HAVE SAID BROWN INITIALLY
STRUGGLED WITH OFFICER WILSON IN
HIS POLICE CAR.
LATER, LOCAL OFFICIALS RELEASED
PARTIAL RESULTS OF THE INITIAL
AUTOPSY.
IT, TOO, FOUND BROWN WAS SHOT
SIX TO EIGHT TIMES.
ALL THIS, AS U.S. ATTORNEY
GENERAL ERIC HOLDER MET WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA AT THE WHITE
HOUSE THIS AFTERNOON TO DISCUSS
THE SITUATION IN FERGUSON.
LATER THE PRESIDENT SPOKE IN THE
WHITE HOUSE BRIEFING ROOM.
>> THE ATTORNEY GENERAL HIMSELF
WILL BE TRAVELING TO FERGUSON ON
WEDNESDAY TO MEET WITH THE
F.B.I. AGENTS AND D.O.J.
PERSONNEL CONDUCTING THE FEDERAL
CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION AND HE
WILL RECEIVE AN UPDATE FROM THEM
ON THEIR PROGRESS.
HE WILL ALSO BE MEETING WITH
CITY LEADERS WHOSE SUPPORT IS SO
CRITICAL TO BRINGING ABOUT PEACE
AND CALM IN FERGUSON.
>> Woodruff: HOLDER HAS ORDERED
A THIRD, FEDERALLY SUPERVISED
AUTOPSY AS PART OF A CIVIL
RIGHTS INVESTIGATION.
WE'LL RETURN TO FERGUSON TO HEAR
WHAT COMMUNITY LEADERS ARE
SAYING ABOUT THE SITUATION RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
WALL STREET SURGED AHEAD TODAY,
ON RISING HOMEBUILDER
CONFIDENCE, FALLING OIL PRICES
AND OTHER FACTORS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED NEARLY 176 POINTS TO
CLOSE WELL OVER 16,838; THE
NASDAQ ROSE 43 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 4,508, THE HIGHEST IT'S BEEN
IN 14 YEARS; AND THE S&P 500
ADDED 16, TO FINISH AT 1,971.
A FIVE-DAY CEASE-FIRE BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND HAMAS WAS EXTENDED
ANOTHER 24 HOURS THIS EVENING.
EGYPTIAN OFFICIALS MEDIATING
NEGOTIATIONS SAID THAT WILL GIVE
MORE  T
LONGER-TERM TRUCE.
MEANWHILE, THE ISRAELI SECURITY
SERVICE SAID IT FOILED AN
ATTEMPT BY HAMAS TO TOPPLE
PALESTINIAN PRESIDENT MAHMOUD
ABBAS, WHO RULES THE WEST BANK.
ACTIVISTS NOW SAY ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS IN SYRIA SHOT AND
BEHEADED HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
AFTER A FAILED UPRISING.
THE VICTIMS BELONGED TO A TRIBE
THAT BATTLED THE JIHADIS IN
EASTERN SYRIA, NEAR THE IRAQI
BORDER.
THE ISLAMIC STATE HAS DECLARED A
MUSLIM CALIPHATE ACROSS A SWATH
OF SYRIA AND IRAQ.
IN UKRAINE, THE MILITARY
REPORTED DOZENS OF CIVILIANS
WERE KILLED IN A ROCKET ATTACK
ON A CONVOY OF REFUGEES.
THEIR BUSES CAME UNDER FIRE NEAR
THE REBEL-HELD CITY OF LUHANSK,
WHERE GOVERNMENT FORCES ADVANCED
OVER THE WEEKEND.
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS BLAMED THE
SEPARATISTS FOR THE ATTACK.
>> ( translated ): TERRORISTS
COMMITTED A BLOODY CRIME.
TERRORISTS FIRED AT A COLUMN OF
CIVILIANS NEAR LUHANSK WHO WERE
TRYING TO FLEE THE ZONE OF
MILITARY ACTIONS, FROM MULTIPLE
MISSILE COMPLEXES AND MORTARS
THAT WERE HANDED TO THE BANDITS
BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
A LOT OF PEOPLE DIED, INCLUDING
WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
>> Woodruff: REBELS DENIED THEY
HAVE THE CAPABILITY TO CARRY OUT
SUCH AN ATTACK.
INSTEAD, THEY BLAMED THE
MILITARY.
ELSEWHERE, HUNDREDS OF RUSSIAN
TRUCKS CARRYING HUMANITARIAN AID
REMAINED PARKED AT A BORDER
CHECKPOINT.
THEY'LL UNDERGO X-RAY INSPECTION
AS PART OF AN AGREEMENT REACHED
BETWEEN RUSSIA AND UKRAINE.
ANTI-GOVERNMENT PROTESTERS IN
PAKISTAN INSISTED TODAY THEY
WILL NOT BACK DOWN UNTIL PRIME
MINISTER NAWAZ SHARIF RESIGNS.
SINCE THE WEEKEND, TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF DEMONSTRATORS HAVE
OCCUPIED TWO MAIN STREETS IN THE
CAPITAL ISLAMABAD, BLOCKING
TRAFFIC AND SHUTTING DOWN
BUSINESSES.
THEY ACCUSE SHARIF OF RIGGING
LAST YEAR'S ELECTIONS.
BRITISH POLICE TODAY QUESTIONED
SOME OF THE 35 AFGHAN SIKHS
FOUND IN A SHIPPING CONTAINER.
THE STOWAWAYS RANGED IN AGE FROM
ONE TO 72.
DOCK WORKERS HEARD THEM
SCREAMING FOR HELP ON SATURDAY.
ONE MAN WAS DECLARED DEAD.
OTHERS SUFFERED HYPOTHERMIA AND
DEHYDRATION.
A TRUCK DELIVERED THE CONTAINER
TO A BELGIAN PORT, WHERE A SHIP
BROUGHT IT TO BRITAIN.
MENTAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL
DISABILITIES AMONG AMERICAN
CHILDREN ROSE SLIGHTLY
BETWEEN 2001 AND 2011.
RESEARCHERS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
PITTSBURGH, SAY EIGHT PERCENT OF
ALL CHILDREN WERE AFFECTED.
THOSE LIVING IN POVERTY REMAIN
L
DISABILITIES, BUT THE STUDY SAID
THE RATE AMONG BETTER-OFF
ILIES ROSE 28% OVER THE
DECADE.
AND, THE COST OF RAISING A CHILD
KEEPS CLIMBING.
THE U.S. AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT
REPORTS A BABY BORN IN 2013 WILL
COST A MIDDLE-INCOME FAMILY AN
AVERAGE OF MORE THAN $245,000
BEFORE REACHING ADULTHOOD.
THAT'S UP NEARLY TWO PERCENT
FROM 2012.
FORMER SENATOR JEFFER,S DIED
TODAY, HE HAD BEEN IN
DECLINING HEALTH, HE GAINED
THE NATIONAL SPOTLIGHT IN
2001 WHEN HE QUIT THE PARTY
AND BECAME AN INDEPENDENT.
THE MOVE GAVE CONTROL OF THE
SENATE TO DEMOCRATS.
HE RETIRED IN 2007 AFTER
MORE THAN 30 YEARS IN
WASHINGTON.
JAMES JEFFERS WAS 80 YEARS
OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
WHAT CAN FERGUSON DO TO MOVE
FORWARD?
CAPTURING HOW EBOLA HAS
DEVASTATED LIBERIA.
WHY DISPLACED IRAQIS FEAR
RETURNING HOME EVEN AS KURDISH
MILITARY FIGHT BACK ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
PUTTING TEACHERS IN CONTROL OF
THE MANAGEMENT OF THEIR SCHOOLS.
AND, NEW REPORTS SHOW MILITARY
FAMILIES AND OLDER COLLEGE
STUDENTS ARE AMONG THE MANY
AMERICANS WHO ARE HUNGRY.
>> Woodruff: WE TAKE A CLOSER
LOOK NOW AT THE SITUATION IN
FERGUSON.
HOW THE ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI AREA
COMMUNITY IS STRUGGLING TO KEEP
ORDER AND HEAL THE DIVISIONS
THAT CONTINUE TO BRING
PROTESTTO THE STREETS.
A SHORT WHILE AGO WE SPOKE WITH
"U.S.A. TODAY" REPORTER YAMICHE
ALCINDOR, WHO IS IN FERGUSON.
>> YAMICHE ALL CINDER, THANK
YOU F US AGAIN, I
WANT TO START BY ASKING YOU
ABOUT REACTION TO GOVERNOR
NIXON'S DECISION TO ENDED
CURFEW AND TO CALL IN THE
MISSOURI NATIONAL GUARD.
>> THE REACTION HERE WAS
REALLY MIXED.
I TALKED TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO WERE REALLY HAPPY TO
HEAR THAT THE NATIONAL GUARD
WAS COMING IN.
PEOPLE SAY THAT THE
BUSINESSES HERE ARE LOSING
SO MUCH MONEY AND PEOPLE WHO
LIVE IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
ARE TERRORIZED BECAUSE EVERY
NIGHT THERE IS TEAR GAS AND
GUNSHOTS IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
HOUR SOME PEOPLE ARE REALLY
UPSET.
I TALKED TO ONE WOMAN WHO
FEELS LIKE SHE'S IN PRISON
IN HER OWN NEIGHBORHOOD.
AND THERE, PEOPLE REALLY
THOUGHT, YOU KNOW, JUST EVEN
MORE MILITARIZING OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS, THIS IS
REALLY THE ACTUAL MILITARY.
WHEN THE NATIONAL GUARD
COMES IN, THERE WILL BE
SOLDIERS WALKING DOWN THE
STREET.
SO I THINK PEOPLE ARE KIND
OF MIXED BUT I THINK THE
MAJORITY OF PEOPLE I TALKED
TO ARE WORRIED BECAUSE THEY
THOUGHT THIS MIGHT GET OUT
OF HAND.
>> Woodruff: WE JUST HEARD
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAY IN HIS
NEWS CONFERENCE THAT HE
WANTS TO MAKE SURE THE
NATIONAL GUARD IS USED IN AN
APPROPRIATE AND, HE SAID IN
A LIMITED WAY.
SO IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE
SAYING THAT WOULD BE
WELCOMED BY THE PEOPLE
THERE.
IF IT IS LIMITED.
>> YEAH, THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
REALLY FOR THE NATIONAL
GUARD AND ARE LOOKING
FORWARD TO THIS ARE REALLY
SAYING EVEN THOUGH I'M
LOOKING FORWARD TO THIS,
THIS REALLY NEEDS TO BE
LIMITED.
PEOPLE NOT JUST GETTING TEAR
THIS REALLY NEEDS TO BE
GASSED BECAUSE THEY ARE
PEOPLE NOT JUST GETTING TEAR
WALKING DOWN THE STREET AT
GASSED BECAUSE THEY ARE
THE WRONG TIME OF DAY.
WALKING DOWN THE STREET AT
IT NEEDS TO BE THAT PEOPLE
THE WRONG TIME OF DAY.
THAT ARE LOOTING, THAT ARE
IT NEEDS TO BE THAT PEOPLE
REALLY CAUSING THE VIOLENCE,
THAT ARE LOOTING, THAT ARE
THEY NEED TO BE THE ONES
REALLY CAUSING THE VIOLENCE,
THAT THE NATIONAL GUARD ARE
THEY NEED TO BE THE ONES
ARRESTING AND THE NATIONAL
THAT THE NATIONAL GUARD ARE
GUARD ARE TAKING INTO
ARRESTING AND THE NATIONAL
CUSTODY.
GUARD ARE TAKING INTO
THE PEOPLE, THE PEACEFUL
CUSTODY.
PROTESTORS SAY THEY REALLY
THE PEOPLE, THE PEACEFUL
WANT TO BE LEFT ALON AND
PROTESTORS SAY THEY REALLY
STILL WANT TO BE ABLE TO
WANT TO BE LEFT ALON AND
VOICE THEIR OPINION.
STILL WANT TO BE ABLE TO
>> Woodruff: YAMICHE, HOW
VOICE THEIR OPINION.
CLEAR IS A DISTINCTION BEING
>> Woodruff: YAMICHE, HOW
MADE BETWEEN FOLKS WHO ARE
CLEAR IS A DISTINCTION BEING
PROTESTING WHO ARE LOCAL
MADE BETWEEN FOLKS WHO ARE
RESIDENTS AND THOSE WHO ARE
PROTESTING WHO ARE LOCAL
COMING IN FROM THE OUTSIDE
RESIDENTS AND THOSE WHO ARE
AND MAYBE CAUSING SOME OF
COMING IN FROM THE OUTSIDE
THESE PROBLEMS?
AND MAYBE CAUSING SOME OF
>> I THINK THERE ARE TWO
THESE PROBLEMS?
VERY DISTINCT GROUPS.
>> I THINK THERE ARE TWO
I THINK THERE ARE PEOPLE
VERY DISTINCT GROUPS.
THAT ARE EVEN COMING IN FROM
I THINK THERE ARE PEOPLE
OUTSIDE OF FERGUSON WHO ARE
THAT ARE EVEN COMING IN FROM
STILL CONSIDERED PROTESTORS.
OUTSIDE OF FERGUSON WHO ARE
THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT ARE
STILL CONSIDERED PROTESTORS.
PEACEFULLY PROTESTING, THAT
THERE ARE PEOPLE THAT ARE
ARE CHANTING JUSTICE FOR
PEACEFULLY PROTESTING, THAT
MIKE BROWN.
ARE CHANTING JUSTICE FOR
DON'T SHOOT, HANDS UP.THERE AREE
MIKE BROWN.
THE CURFEW WAS IF EFFECT,
DON'T SHOOT, HANDS UP.THERE AREE
THEY WOULD LEAVE AM BUT THEN
THE CURFEW WAS IF EFFECT,
THERE ARE THE LOOTERS.
THEY WOULD LEAVE AM BUT THEN
AND THOSE ARE THE PEOPLE
THERE ARE THE LOOTERS.
THAT ACTUALLY THE PROTESTORS
AND THOSE ARE THE PEOPLE
ARE ACTUALLY CLASHING WITH
THAT ACTUALLY THE PROTESTORS
THE LOOTERS.
ARE ACTUALLY CLASHING WITH
THE PROTESTORS ARE TRYING TO
THE LOOTERS.
GET THE LOOTERS TO GO HOME.
THE PROTESTORS ARE TRYING TO
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET THEM
GET THE LOOTERS TO GO HOME.
TO STAY AWAY FROM BUSINESS.
THEY'RE TRYING TO GET THEM
AND THOSE LOOTERS ARE THE
TO STAY AWAY FROM BUSINESS.
PEOPLE THAT ARE PICKING UP
AND THOSE LOOTERS ARE THE
ROCKS AND THROWING THEM AT
PEOPLE THAT ARE PICKING UP
THE POLICE, THOSE ARE THE
ROCKS AND THROWING THEM AT
PEOPLE THAT ARE BREAKING
THE POLICE, THOSE ARE THE
INTO THE LOCAL BUSINESSES
PEOPLE THAT ARE BREAKING
HERE.
INTO THE LOCAL BUSINESSES
SO THERE ARE TWO DISTINCT
HERE.
GROUPS AND ACTUALLY TWO
SO THERE ARE TWO DISTINCT
DISTINCT GROUPS THAT ARE
GROUPS AND ACTUALLY TWO
CLASHING.
DISTINCT GROUPS THAT ARE
PROTESTORS ARE TRYING TO
CLASHING.
PROTECT THE CITY IN WHAT ISAW LS
PROTESTORS ARE TRYING TO
ARE REALLY TRYING TO PROTECT
PROTECT THE CITY IN WHAT ISAW LS
THE CITY FROM LOOTERS.
ARE REALLY TRYING TO PROTECT
>> Woodruff: YAMICHE, WE
THE CITY FROM LOOTERS.
KNOW ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT
>> Woodruff: YAMICHE, WE
PEOPLE ALL DAY LONG WHILE
KNOW ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT
YOU'RE THERE.
PEOPLE ALL DAY LONG WHILE
REACTIONS YOU'RE HEARING TO
YOU'RE THERE.
THE PRIVATELY-ORDERED
REACTIONS YOU'RE HEARING TO
AUTOPSY THAT WAS-- WE HEARD
THE PRIVATELY-ORDERED
A REPORT ON THAT TODAY.
AUTOPSY THAT WAS-- WE HEARD
THE AUTOPSY THAT WAS ORDERED
A REPORT ON THAT TODAY.
BY THE FAMILY AND ALSO
THE AUTOPSY THAT WAS ORDERED
REPORTS THAT ARE NOW
BY THE FAMILY AND ALSO
STARTING TO COME OUT ABOUT
REPORTS THAT ARE NOW
THE VERSION OF WHAT HAPPENED
STARTING TO COME OUT ABOUT
ON THE PART OF THE POLICE
THE VERSION OF WHAT HAPPENED
OFFICER.
ON THE PART OF THE POLICE
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING ABOUT
OFFICER.
ALL THAT?
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING ABOUT
>> PEOPLE ARE VERY, VERY
ALL THAT?
ANGRY.
>> PEOPLE ARE VERY, VERY
I THINK THAT AUTOPSY REALLY-- A
ANGRY.
LOT OF PEOPLE'S ANGER TOWARD
I THINK THAT AUTOPSY REALLY-- A
THE POLICE, PEOPLE ARE
LOT OF PEOPLE'S ANGER TOWARD
SAYING NOT ONLY DID WE THINK
THE POLICE, PEOPLE ARE
HE WAS SHOT WITH HIS HANDS
SAYING NOT ONLY DID WE THINK
UP, BUT SIX TIMES,
HE WAS SHOT WITH HIS HANDS
ESPECIALLY WITH THAT
UP, BUT SIX TIMES,
PATHOLOGIST SAYING THAT
ESPECIALLY WITH THAT
MICHAEL BROWN COULD HAVE
PATHOLOGIST SAYING THAT
SURVIVED THE FIRST SHOTS BUT
MICHAEL BROWN COULD HAVE
THAT LAST SHOT, THAT SHOT TO
SURVIVED THE FIRST SHOTS BUT
HIS HEAD WAS THE ONE THAT
THAT LAST SHOT, THAT SHOT TO
KILLED HIM.
HIS HEAD WAS THE ONE THAT
SO PEOPLE HERE ARE REALLY,
KILLED HIM.
REALLY UP SET ABOUT THAT.
SO PEOPLE HERE ARE REALLY,
THERE WAS A MAN HERE WHO WAS
REALLY UP SET ABOUT THAT.
TRYING TO ORDER PEACE,
THERE WAS A MAN HERE WHO WAS
TRYING TO BE A PEACEKEEPER.
TRYING TO ORDER PEACE,
AND HE SAID, YOU KNOW, WE
TRYING TO BE A PEACEKEEPER.
REALLY NEED TIME TO DIGEST
AND HE SAID, YOU KNOW, WE
THAT AUTOPSY.
REALLY NEED TIME TO DIGEST
SO THAT TELLS YOU THAT EVEN
THAT AUTOPSY.
THE PEOPLE TRYING TO KEEP
SO THAT TELLS YOU THAT EVEN
PEACE UNDERSTAND THE AUTOPSY
THE PEOPLE TRYING TO KEEP
IS REALLY INFLAMING PEOPLE.
PEACE UNDERSTAND THE AUTOPSY
SO REALLY PEOPLE ARE REALLY
IS REALLY INFLAMING PEOPLE.
UP SET HERE.
SO REALLY PEOPLE ARE REALLY
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT ABOUT
UP SET HERE.
THE VERSION OF THE STORY
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT ABOUT
COMING OUT FROM THE POLICE
THE VERSION OF THE STORY
OFFICER?
COMING OUT FROM THE POLICE
ARE YOU HEARING ANY
OFFICER?
CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT?
ARE YOU HEARING ANY
>> PEOPLE ARE REALLY
CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT?
THINKING THAT THE POLICE
>> PEOPLE ARE REALLY
OFFICER IS LYING.
THINKING THAT THE POLICE
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SAYING
OFFICER IS LYING.
THAT THEY THINK THAT THIS
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SAYING
OFFICER WAS STRATEGICALLY
THAT THEY THINK THAT THIS
COVERED UP BY HIS
OFFICER WAS STRATEGICALLY
DEPARTMENT.
COVERED UP BY HIS
THEY SAY IT TOOK SO LONG FOR
DEPARTMENT.
THEM TO RELEASE HIS NAME T
THEY SAY IT TOOK SO LONG FOR
TOOK SO LONG FOR THEM TO DO
THEM TO RELEASE HIS NAME T
ALL THESE DIFFERENT THINGS
TOOK SO LONG FOR THEM TO DO
THAT THEY REALLY DON'T TRUTH
ALL THESE DIFFERENT THINGS
ANY VERSION COMING OUT OF
THAT THEY REALLY DON'T TRUTH
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT SO A
ANY VERSION COMING OUT OF
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SAYING
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT SO A
THAT THEY REALLY JUST DON'T
LOT OF PEOPLE ARE SAYING
BELIEVE WHAT THE POLICE ARE
THAT THEY REALLY JUST DON'T
SAYING.
BELIEVE WHAT THE POLICE ARE
AND THAT'S WHY THEY ARE
SAYING.
PROTESTING.
AND THAT'S WHY THEY ARE
THEY SAYS THAT'S PART OF THE
PROTESTING.
PROBLEM.
THEY SAYS THAT'S PART OF THE
IT'S NOT JUST POLICE
PROBLEM.
BRUTALITY, NOT JUST PEOPLE
IT'S NOT JUST POLICE
BEING SHOT BUT ALSO THE
BRUTALITY, NOT JUST PEOPLE
COVER-UP.
BEING SHOT BUT ALSO THE
THE IDEA THAT THE COPS ARE
COVER-UP.
REALLY TRYING TOPROTECT
THE IDEA THAT THE COPS ARE
THEIR OWN.
REALLY TRYING TOPROTECT
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY, SO
THEIR OWN.
PEOPLE ARE THEY LOOKING TO
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY, SO
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
PEOPLE ARE THEY LOOKING TO
LOCALLY TO PROSECUTE THIS?
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
NOW THAT WE KNOW THE
LOCALLY TO PROSECUTE THIS?
ATTORNEY GENERAL IS COMING
NOW THAT WE KNOW THE
IN, WHERE ARE PEOPLE LOOKING
ATTORNEY GENERAL IS COMING
NOW FOR JUSTICE, THE NEXT
IN, WHERE ARE PEOPLE LOOKING
STEP?
NOW FOR JUSTICE, THE NEXT
>> SOME PEOPLE TRUST THE
STEP?
LOCAL COMMUNITY, SOME PEOPLE
>> SOME PEOPLE TRUST THE
TRUST THEIR LOCAL
LOCAL COMMUNITY, SOME PEOPLE
THEY SAY LET'S START THE
TRUST THEIR LOCAL
PROCESS HERE AND SEE WHAT
THEY SAY LET'S START THE
HAPPENS.
PROCESS HERE AND SEE WHAT
I THINK SOME PEOPLE ARE
HAPPENS.
SAYING, YOU KNOW, WITH THE
I THINK SOME PEOPLE ARE
LOCAL PROSECUTOR CAN GET
SAYING, YOU KNOW, WITH THE
THIS DONE, INDICT THIS
LOCAL PROSECUTOR CAN GET
OFFICER FOR MURDER WHICH IS
THIS DONE, INDICT THIS
WHAT A LOT OF THE PROTESTORS
OFFICER FOR MURDER WHICH IS
HERE WANT, THEN MAYBE WE CAN
WHAT A LOT OF THE PROTESTORS
TRUST THE PROCESS.
HERE WANT, THEN MAYBE WE CAN
BUT I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE,
TRUST THE PROCESS.
ESPECIALLY THE COMMUNITY
BUT I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE,
LEADERS AND THE PEOPLE THAT
ESPECIALLY THE COMMUNITY
HAVE COME IN FROM OUTSIDE,
LEADERS AND THE PEOPLE THAT
REVEREND SHARPTON, MARTIN
HAVE COME IN FROM OUTSIDE,
LUTHER KING, JR. SAY THEY
REVEREND SHARPTON, MARTIN
WANT TO SEE A FEDERAL
LUTHER KING, JR. SAY THEY
INVESTIGATION AND A FEDERAL
WANT TO SEE A FEDERAL
PROSECUTION.
INVESTIGATION AND A FEDERAL
SO I THINK THAT THERE ARE
PROSECUTION.
PEOPLE, MAINLY FROM THE
SO I THINK THAT THERE ARE
OUTSIDE THAT I THINK ARE
PEOPLE, MAINLY FROM THE
STARTING, WE WANT TO TRY TO
OUTSIDE THAT I THINK ARE
SEE IF THERE IS A WAY FOR
STARTING, WE WANT TO TRY TO
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO
SEE IF THERE IS A WAY FOR
PROSECUTE.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT TO
BUT I THINK THE PEOPLE
PROSECUTE.
LOCALLY HERE ARE SAYING
BUT I THINK THE PEOPLE
LET'S MAYBE START HERE,
LOCALLY HERE ARE SAYING
START IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
LET'S MAYBE START HERE,
WHERE MICHAEL BROWN WAS KILL
START IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
KD AND THEN MAYBE WE CAN
WHERE MICHAEL BROWN WAS KILL
TAKE THIS FEDERALLY IF IT
KD AND THEN MAYBE WE CAN
GETS TO THAT POINT.
TAKE THIS FEDERALLY IF IT
>> Woodruff: YAMICHE
GETS TO THAT POINT.
ALCINDOR, REPORTER FOR
>> Woodruff: YAMICHE
"U.S.A. TODAY" ON THE GROUND
ALCINDOR, REPORTER FOR
THERE IN FERGUSON, MISSOURI.
"U.S.A. TODAY" ON THE GROUND
THANK YOU.
THERE IN FERGUSON, MISSOURI.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO TWO
THANK YOU.
LEADERS IN THE COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO TWO
EARLIER THIS EVENING I SPOKE
LEADERS IN THE COMMUNITY.
WITH FORMER FERGUSON MAYOR BRIAN
EARLIER THIS EVENING I SPOKE
FLETCHER.
WITH FORMER FERGUSON MAYOR BRIAN
AND, MISSOURI STATE SENATOR
FLETCHER.
MARIA CHAPELLE-NADAL.
AND, MISSOURI STATE SENATOR
>> Woodruff: FORMER MAYOR
MARIA CHAPELLE-NADAL.
FLETCHER, STATE SENATOR
>> Woodruff: FORMER MAYOR
CHAPPELL NADAL, WE THANK YOU
FLETCHER, STATE SENATOR
FOR JOINING US.
CHAPPELL NADAL, WE THANK YOU
I WANT TO ASK YOU FIRST
FOR JOINING US.
ABOUT THE GOVERNOR'S
I WANT TO ASK YOU FIRST
DECISION TO CALL IN THE
ABOUT THE GOVERNOR'S
NATIONAL GUARD.
DECISION TO CALL IN THE
WE JUST HEARD PRESIDENT
NATIONAL GUARD.
OBAMA SAY HE WANTS THAT TO
WE JUST HEARD PRESIDENT
BE A LIMITED USE OF THE
OBAMA SAY HE WANTS THAT TO
GUARD AND IN AN APPROPRIATE
BE A LIMITED USE OF THE
MANNER.
GUARD AND IN AN APPROPRIATE
SENATOR CHAPEL NADAL, WHAT
MANNER.
DO YOU MAKE OF THE DECISION
SENATOR CHAPEL NADAL, WHAT
TO CALL OUT THE GUARD.
DO YOU MAKE OF THE DECISION
>> WELL, WHAT I WOULD AGREE
TO CALL OUT THE GUARD.
TO IS THAT WE CERTAINLY NEED
>> WELL, WHAT I WOULD AGREE
SOME ORDER IN THIS COMMUNITY
TO IS THAT WE CERTAINLY NEED
THERE ARE CERTAIN ELEMENTS
SOME ORDER IN THIS COMMUNITY
THAT HAVE COME INTO THE
THERE ARE CERTAIN ELEMENTS
FERGUSON AREA THAT ARE NOT
THAT HAVE COME INTO THE
WELCOME.
FERGUSON AREA THAT ARE NOT
WE HAVE HEARD THAT ANARCHISTS
WELCOME.
HAVE COME FROM ACROSS THE
WE HAVE HEARD THAT ANARCHISTS
COUNTRY TO INCITE NEGATIVITY
HAVE COME FROM ACROSS THE
IN THE COMMUNITY.
COUNTRY TO INCITE NEGATIVITY
AND ALL FERGUSON RESIDENTS,
IN THE COMMUNITY.
ALL THEY WANT TO DO IS TO BE
AND ALL FERGUSON RESIDENTS,
ABLE TO PROTEST IN PEACE.
ALL THEY WANT TO DO IS TO BE
AND WE JUST WANT TO MAKE
ABLE TO PROTEST IN PEACE.
SURE THERE'S ORDER.
AND WE JUST WANT TO MAKE
AND WE DO NOT HAVE
SURE THERE'S ORDER.
DISTURBANCES.
AND WE DO NOT HAVE
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
DISTURBANCES.
ALL BUSINESSES ARE SAFE, AND
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT EVERY SINGLE RESIDENT
ALL BUSINESSES ARE SAFE, AND
IS SAFE AS THEY ARE
THAT EVERY SINGLE RESIDENT
PROTESTING AND TRYING TO
IS SAFE AS THEY ARE
LIVE THEIR LIVES.
PROTESTING AND TRYING TO
>> Woodruff: FORMER MAYOR
LIVE THEIR LIVES.
BRIAN FLETCHER, TELL ME,
>> Woodruff: FORMER MAYOR
WHAT IS YOUR REACTION TO
BRIAN FLETCHER, TELL ME,
CALLING OUT THE GUARD TO
WHAT IS YOUR REACTION TO
PATROL YOUR COMMUNITY.
CALLING OUT THE GUARD TO
AND WHY DO BELIEVE IT'S BEEN
PATROL YOUR COMMUNITY.
SO HARD TO BRING CALM TO THE
AND WHY DO BELIEVE IT'S BEEN
AREA?
SO HARD TO BRING CALM TO THE
>> I DON'T THINK ANYONE
AREA?
QUITE KNOWS THE ANSWER WHY
>> I DON'T THINK ANYONE
CALM IS NOT COMING EXCEPT A
QUITE KNOWS THE ANSWER WHY
LOT OF UNANSWERED QUESTIONS
CALM IS NOT COMING EXCEPT A
AT THIS POINT.
LOT OF UNANSWERED QUESTIONS
I DO BELIEVE THE NATIONAL
AT THIS POINT.
GUARD IS NECESSARY.
I DO BELIEVE THE NATIONAL
WE DO NEED THE PROTECTION OF
GUARD IS NECESSARY.
OUR BUSINESSES, DURING THE
WE DO NEED THE PROTECTION OF
EVENING HOURS.
OUR BUSINESSES, DURING THE
AND I THINK THIS WILL HELP
EVENING HOURS.
SOME OF THE DESTRUCTION
AND I THINK THIS WILL HELP
THAT'S OCCURRING IN THE
SOME OF THE DESTRUCTION
CITIES.
THAT'S OCCURRING IN THE
>> Woodruff: SENATOR CHPELL
CITIES.
CHPELLE-NADAL, WHAT IS YOUR
>> Woodruff: SENATOR CHPELL
OPINION ON WHY IF HAS BEEN
CHPELLE-NADAL, WHAT IS YOUR
SO HARD TO GET THE SITUATION
OPINION ON WHY IF HAS BEEN
CALM.
SO HARD TO GET THE SITUATION
>> FRANKLY I HAVE TO GO BACK
CALM.
TO WHAT I HAVE BEEN SAYING
>> FRANKLY I HAVE TO GO BACK
SINCE DAY ONE, SINCE I HAVE
TO WHAT I HAVE BEEN SAYING
BEEN AT GROUND ZERO.
SINCE DAY ONE, SINCE I HAVE
GOVERNOR NIXON HAS NOT COME
BEEN AT GROUND ZERO.
TO GROUND ZERO, ONE OR TWO.
GOVERNOR NIXON HAS NOT COME
AND IT'S CONCERNING TO ITS
TO GROUND ZERO, ONE OR TWO.
RESIDENTS WHO ARE THE
AND IT'S CONCERNING TO ITS
VICTIMS OF THE SITUATION.
RESIDENTS WHO ARE THE
MOST OF THE PEOPLE HERE AT
VICTIMS OF THE SITUATION.
GROUND ZERO ARE YOUNG PEOPLE
MOST OF THE PEOPLE HERE AT
WHO HAVE BEEN INTIMIDATED
GROUND ZERO ARE YOUNG PEOPLE
AND HARASSED AT ANY GIVEN
WHO HAVE BEEN INTIMIDATED
TIME.
AND HARASSED AT ANY GIVEN
AND THEY ALL SEE THEMSELVES
TIME.
AS A MICHAEL BROWN.
AND THEY ALL SEE THEMSELVES
AND BECAUSE THE GOVERNOR HAS
AS A MICHAEL BROWN.
A DISCONNECT WITH THE
AND BECAUSE THE GOVERNOR HAS
COMMUNITY THAT IS MOST
A DISCONNECT WITH THE
AFFECTED, I THINK HE JUST
COMMUNITY THAT IS MOST
DIDN'T UNDERSTAND HOW TO GO
AFFECTED, I THINK HE JUST
ABOUT ANSWERING THE NEEDS OF
DIDN'T UNDERSTAND HOW TO GO
THE COMMUNITY.
ABOUT ANSWERING THE NEEDS OF
AND INSTEAD OF LEANING ON
THE COMMUNITY.
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE AFFECTED
AND INSTEAD OF LEANING ON
AT GROUND ZERO, HE HAS
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE AFFECTED
RELIED ON FOLK WHS WHO HAVE
AT GROUND ZERO, HE HAS
NO CONNECTION TO THE PEOPLE
RELIED ON FOLK WHS WHO HAVE
WHO ARE MOST IMPACTED.
NO CONNECTION TO THE PEOPLE
>> Woodruff: .
WHO ARE MOST IMPACTED.
>> JUDY, CAN I RESPOND TO
>> Woodruff: .
THE SAME QUESTION?
>> JUDY, CAN I RESPOND TO
>> Woodruff: YES.
THE SAME QUESTION?
>> ALL RIGHT, FIRST OF ALL,
>> Woodruff: YES.
JUDY, MOST OF THE
>> ALL RIGHT, FIRST OF ALL,
INDIVIDUALS COMING INTO OUR
JUDY, MOST OF THE
COMMUNITY DISRUPTING IT ARE
INDIVIDUALS COMING INTO OUR
NOT FROM FERGUSON ITSELF.
COMMUNITY DISRUPTING IT ARE
VERY FEW OF THE PROTESTORS
NOT FROM FERGUSON ITSELF.
ARE ACTUALLY FROM FERGUSON.
VERY FEW OF THE PROTESTORS
AND DEFINITELY THE PEOPLE
ARE ACTUALLY FROM FERGUSON.
CAUSING THE VIOLENCE ARE NOT
AND DEFINITELY THE PEOPLE
FROM FERGUSON.
CAUSING THE VIOLENCE ARE NOT
WHAT WE NEED IS WE NEED OUR
FROM FERGUSON.
CHILDREN TO GO BACK TO
WHAT WE NEED IS WE NEED OUR
SCHOOL.
CHILDREN TO GO BACK TO
WE DON'T NEED THE ATTENTION
SCHOOL.
THAT WE'RE GETTING.
WE DON'T NEED THE ATTENTION
OUR CITY HALL CANNOT
THAT WE'RE GETTING.
FUNCTION.
OUR CITY HALL CANNOT
WE NEED THE HELP OF THE
FUNCTION.
NATIONAL GUARD, AND QUITE
WE NEED THE HELP OF THE
FRANKLY, I DON'T BELIEVE THE
NATIONAL GUARD, AND QUITE
MEDIA IS HELPING.
FRANKLY, I DON'T BELIEVE THE
IT IS GIVING THE OPPORTUNITY
MEDIA IS HELPING.
FOR THOSE THAT WISH TO DO
IT IS GIVING THE OPPORTUNITY
BAD TO ACTUALLY SHOW IT ON
FOR THOSE THAT WISH TO DO
VIDEO.
BAD TO ACTUALLY SHOW IT ON
>> Woodruff: WELL, LET ME
VIDEO.
JUST T TIME WE
>> Woodruff: WELL, LET ME
HAVE LEFT, WHAT DO BOTH, THE
JUST T TIME WE
TWO OF YOU BELIEVE IT IS
HAVE LEFT, WHAT DO BOTH, THE
GOING TO TAKE TO RESTORE A
TWO OF YOU BELIEVE IT IS
CALM CALM TO THE COMMUNITY
GOING TO TAKE TO RESTORE A
AND A SENSE OF CONFIDENCE
CALM CALM TO THE COMMUNITY
THAT JUSTICE WILL BE DONE?
AND A SENSE OF CONFIDENCE
>> I'LL START WITH THAT.
THAT JUSTICE WILL BE DONE?
WHAT THE COMMUNITY IS DOING,
>> I'LL START WITH THAT.
WE HAVE ORGANIZED A GROUP
WHAT THE COMMUNITY IS DOING,
CALLED I LOVE FERGUSON.
WE HAVE ORGANIZED A GROUP
WE HAVE ORDERED 3,000 YARD
CALLED I LOVE FERGUSON.
SIGNS THAT SAY I LOVE
WE HAVE ORDERED 3,000 YARD
FERGUSON THAT WILL SPROUT UP
SIGNS THAT SAY I LOVE
THROUGH FERGUSON.
FERGUSON THAT WILL SPROUT UP
I RAISED $8,000 WITHIN 24
THROUGH FERGUSON.
HOURS OF $5, LITTLE BOYS
I RAISED $8,000 WITHIN 24
BRINGING UP CHANGE, AND
HOURS OF $5, LITTLE BOYS
THESE SIGNS WILL START BEING
BRINGING UP CHANGE, AND
UP ON WEDNESDAY MORNING.
THESE SIGNS WILL START BEING
>> HERE'S THE REAL DEAL.
UP ON WEDNESDAY MORNING.
THE CONSTITUENTS IN THIS
>> HERE'S THE REAL DEAL.
COMMUNITY, THEY WANT JUSTICE,
THE CONSTITUENTS IN THIS
THEY WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
COMMUNITY, THEY WANT JUSTICE,
THIS OFFICER IS ARRESTED,
THEY WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT THERE IS A GRAND JURY,
THIS OFFICER IS ARRESTED,
AND THEN THAT THERE'S
THAT THERE IS A GRAND JURY,
JUSTICE THROUGH THE JUSTICE
AND THEN THAT THERE'S
SYSTEM.
JUSTICE THROUGH THE JUSTICE
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU BOTH.
SYSTEM.
MAYOR AND SENATOR
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU BOTH.
CHAPELLE-NADAL.
MAYOR AND SENATOR
>> THANK YOU.
CHAPELLE-NADAL.
>> Woodruff: NOW THE WIDENING
>> THANK YOU.
EFFECTS OF THE EBOLA OUTBREAK IN
>> Woodruff: NOW THE WIDENING
WEST AFRICA CONTINUE TO SPREAD.
EFFECTS OF THE EBOLA OUTBREAK IN
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR UPDATE.
WEST AFRICA CONTINUE TO SPREAD.
>> Reporter: THERE WAS NO SIGN
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR UPDATE.
OF EBOLA PANIC THIS WEEKEND IN
>> Reporter: THERE WAS NO SIGN
DOWNTOWN MONROVIA, LIBERIA'S
OF EBOLA PANIC THIS WEEKEND IN
CAPITAL.
DOWNTOWN MONROVIA, LIBERIA'S
BUT IN A SLUM-- ON SATURDAY
CAPITAL.
NIGHT-- ANGRY RESIDENTS STORMED
BUT IN A SLUM-- ON SATURDAY
A QUARANTINE CENTER.
NIGHT-- ANGRY RESIDENTS STORMED
STEALING BLOOD-STAINED SHEETS
A QUARANTINE CENTER.
AND SPIRITING AWAY PATIENTS.
STEALING BLOOD-STAINED SHEETS
SOME CHARGED THOSE SENT TO THE
AND SPIRITING AWAY PATIENTS.
SITE HAD RECEIVED LITTLE CARE.
SOME CHARGED THOSE SENT TO THE
OTHERS BRANDED THE EBOLA
SITE HAD RECEIVED LITTLE CARE.
OUTBREAK A HOAX.
OTHERS BRANDED THE EBOLA
AS OF TODAY, 17 PATIENTS WERE
OUTBREAK A HOAX.
STILL MISSING, AMID FEARS THE
AS OF TODAY, 17 PATIENTS WERE
ATTACK  WILL ONLY SPREAD THE
STILL MISSING, AMID FEARS THE
DISEASE.
ATTACK  WILL ONLY SPREAD THE
EBOLA HAS NOW APPEARED IN
DISEASE.
GUINEA, SIERRA LEONE, LIBERIA
EBOLA HAS NOW APPEARED IN
AND NIGERIA IN THE WORST
GUINEA, SIERRA LEONE, LIBERIA
OUTBREAK ON RECORD.
AND NIGERIA IN THE WORST
IT'S KILLED AT LEAST 1,145
OUTBREAK ON RECORD.
PEOPLE.
IT'S KILLED AT LEAST 1,145
SIERRA LEONE'S PRESIDENT, ERNEST
PEOPLE.
BAI KOROMA, HAS APPEALED FOR
SIERRA LEONE'S PRESIDENT, ERNEST
MORE INTERNATIONAL HELP.
BAI KOROMA, HAS APPEALED FOR
>> THIS IS A CALL WE ARE NOW
MORE INTERNATIONAL HELP.
MAKING TO THE WORLD BECAUSE WE
>> THIS IS A CALL WE ARE NOW
NEED TREATMENT CENTERS, AND IN
MAKING TO THE WORLD BECAUSE WE
TREATMENT CENTERS WE NEED
NEED TREATMENT CENTERS, AND IN
CLINICIANS THAT REQUIRE
TREATMENT CENTERS WE NEED
SPECIALIZED TRAINING, WE DON'T
CLINICIANS THAT REQUIRE
HAVE THAT.
SPECIALIZED TRAINING, WE DON'T
>> Reporter: THE EFFECTS OF THE
HAVE THAT.
CRISIS IN WEST AFRICA HAVE
>> Reporter: THE EFFECTS OF THE
RIPPLED ACROSS THE CONTINENT.
CRISIS IN WEST AFRICA HAVE
THE GOVERNMENT OF KENYA, IN EAST
RIPPLED ACROSS THE CONTINENT.
AFRICA, CLOSED ITS BORDERS TODAY
THE GOVERNMENT OF KENYA, IN EAST
TO TRAVELERS FROM THE AFFECTED
AFRICA, CLOSED ITS BORDERS TODAY
COUNTRIES.
TO TRAVELERS FROM THE AFFECTED
BUT EFFORTS TO FIGHT THE
COUNTRIES.
OUTBREAK ARE ALSO GAINING
BUT EFFORTS TO FIGHT THE
MOMENTUM.
OUTBREAK ARE ALSO GAINING
ON SUNDAY, DOCTORS WITHOUT
MOMENTUM.
BORDERS OPENED A 120 BED
ON SUNDAY, DOCTORS WITHOUT
TREATMENT SITE IN MONROVIA.
BORDERS OPENED A 120 BED
IT'S THE LARGEST SUCH CENTER IN
TREATMENT SITE IN MONROVIA.
HISTORY.
IT'S THE LARGEST SUCH CENTER IN
AND IN THIS COUNTRY, THERE'S
HISTORY.
WORD THAT TWO AMERICAN PATIENTS
AND IN THIS COUNTRY, THERE'S
BEING TREATED AT EMORY
WORD THAT TWO AMERICAN PATIENTS
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL IN ATLANTA
BEING TREATED AT EMORY
ARE IMPROVING.
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL IN ATLANTA
I SPOKE TO JOHN MOORE, A
ARE IMPROVING.
PHOTOGRAPHER WITH GETTY IMAGES A
I SPOKE TO JOHN MOORE, A
SHORT TIME AGO.
PHOTOGRAPHER WITH GETTY IMAGES A
HE WITNESSED THE ATTACK ON THE
SHORT TIME AGO.
QUARANTINE CENTER AND HAS BEEN
HE WITNESSED THE ATTACK ON THE
DOCUMENTING THE OUTBREAK IN
QUARANTINE CENTER AND HAS BEEN
MONROVIA.
DOCUMENTING THE OUTBREAK IN
JOHN MOORE, THANKS FOR
MONROVIA.
JOINING US.
JOHN MOORE, THANKS FOR
FIRST TELL US MORE ABOUT THE
JOINING US.
EVENT.
FIRST TELL US MORE ABOUT THE
WHO WAS INVOLVED AND WHY DID
EVENT.
THEY SEEM TO BE DOING IT?
WHO WAS INVOLVED AND WHY DID
>> WELL, IT WAS AN ANGRY
THEY SEEM TO BE DOING IT?
CROWD WHO HAD JUST DRIVEN
>> WELL, IT WAS AN ANGRY
AWAY A BURIAL TEAM WHO HAD
CROWD WHO HAD JUST DRIVEN
COME TO CLAIM SEVERAL BODIES
AWAY A BURIAL TEAM WHO HAD
THAT WERE SUSPECTED
COME TO CLAIM SEVERAL BODIES
OF-- PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF
THAT WERE SUSPECTED
DYING OF EBOLA.
OF-- PEOPLE SUSPECTED OF
AND THE CROWD DROVE AWAY THE
DYING OF EBOLA.
BURIAL TEAMS AND THE POLICE
AND THE CROWD DROVE AWAY THE
AND THEN MARCHED ON THE
BURIAL TEAMS AND THE POLICE
ISOLATION WARD WILL, THE
AND THEN MARCHED ON THE
HOLDING CENTER FOR EBOLA
ISOLATION WARD WILL, THE
PATIENTS.
HOLDING CENTER FOR EBOLA
THEY PUSHED THROUGH THE
PATIENTS.
DOORS AND TOLD PEOPLE THAT
THEY PUSHED THROUGH THE
THEY REALLY DIDN'T HAVE
DOORS AND TOLD PEOPLE THAT
EBOLA AFTER ALL.
THEY REALLY DIDN'T HAVE
THAT THEY WERE SICK OF OTHER
EBOLA AFTER ALL.
CAUSES AND THAT IT WAS SAFE
THAT THEY WERE SICK OF OTHER
TO COME OUT.
CAUSES AND THAT IT WAS SAFE
>> THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE
TO COME OUT.
WHO DENY THE EXISTENCE OF
>> THERE'S A LOT OF PEOPLE
EBOLA HERE.
WHO DENY THE EXISTENCE OF
THEY THINK THAT IT'S A
EBOLA HERE.
SCHEME, A HOAX, A PLOT BY
THEY THINK THAT IT'S A
THE GOVERNMENT TO BRING IN
SCHEME, A HOAX, A PLOT BY
INTERNATIONAL MONEY AND THEY
THE GOVERNMENT TO BRING IN
PULLED THESE PEOPLE OUT OF
INTERNATIONAL MONEY AND THEY
THE WARD AND THEN I LEFT THE
PULLED THESE PEOPLE OUT OF
SCENE BECAUSE IT WAS GETTING
THE WARD AND THEN I LEFT THE
DIFFICULT AND AFTERWARDS
SCENE BECAUSE IT WAS GETTING
THIS CROWD LOOTED THE
DIFFICULT AND AFTERWARDS
FACILITY TAKING SOILED
THIS CROWD LOOTED THE
MATTRESSES AND CONTAMINATED
FACILITY TAKING SOILED
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND I
MATTRESSES AND CONTAMINATED
ASSUME SPREADING THE DISEASE
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND I
MUCH MORE IN THEIR COMMUNITY.
ASSUME SPREADING THE DISEASE
>> Brown: THESE ARE PATIENTS
MUCH MORE IN THEIR COMMUNITY.
UNDER OBSERVATION, NOT KNOWN
>> Brown: THESE ARE PATIENTS
TO HAVE EBOLA YET.
UNDER OBSERVATION, NOT KNOWN
WHAT ABOUT THE CENTER ITSELF,
TO HAVE EBOLA YET.
WHAT ARE THE CONDITIONS, HOW
WHAT ABOUT THE CENTER ITSELF,
WELL OR POORLY SUPPLIED IS
WHAT ARE THE CONDITIONS, HOW
IT.
WELL OR POORLY SUPPLIED IS
>> THE CONDITIONS WERE POOR
IT.
AND THE PLACE WAS VERY
>> THE CONDITIONS WERE POOR
POORLY SUPPLIED.
AND THE PLACE WAS VERY
IT WAS RUN BY THE LIBERIAN
POORLY SUPPLIED.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, A SMALL
IT WAS RUN BY THE LIBERIAN
CENTER, ACTUALLY IT WAS A
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, A SMALL
PRIMARY SCHOOL THAT HAD BEEN
CENTER, ACTUALLY IT WAS A
CLO B
PRIMARY SCHOOL THAT HAD BEEN
EPIDEMIC, A SCHOOL BUILT BY
CLO B
U.S. AID FUNDS.
EPIDEMIC, A SCHOOL BUILT BY
AND THEY HAD NO MEDICINE
U.S. AID FUNDS.
THERE NOW WE KNOW EBOLA IS
AND THEY HAD NO MEDICINE
NOT CURABLE, HOWEVER YOU CAN
THERE NOW WE KNOW EBOLA IS
STREET THE SYMPTOMS.
NOT CURABLE, HOWEVER YOU CAN
AND THEY HAD NO ASPIRIN TO
STREET THE SYMPTOMS.
REDUCE THE FEVER OF THESE
AND THEY HAD NO ASPIRIN TO
PATIENTS, ALL THEY GAVE THEM
REDUCE THE FEVER OF THESE
WAS FOOD AND WATER AND SO
PATIENTS, ALL THEY GAVE THEM
THE CONDITIONS WERE QUITE
WAS FOOD AND WATER AND SO
BAD.
THE CONDITIONS WERE QUITE
>> Brown: YOU'RE DESCRIBING
BAD.
ONE VIOLENT INCIDENT.
>> Brown: YOU'RE DESCRIBING
YOU CAN TELL HOW WIDESPREAD
ONE VIOLENT INCIDENT.
THE ANGER AND FEAR ARE IN
YOU CAN TELL HOW WIDESPREAD
MONROVIA NOW, IS IT A
THE ANGER AND FEAR ARE IN
GENERAL SENSE OR IS THE
MONROVIA NOW, IS IT A
GOVERNMENT ACTUALLY REACHING
GENERAL SENSE OR IS THE
MOST PEOPLE WITH A CALL FOR
GOVERNMENT ACTUALLY REACHING
CALM.
MOST PEOPLE WITH A CALL FOR
>> THE GOVERNMENT IS TRYING.
CALM.
AND THE INTERNATIONAL
>> THE GOVERNMENT IS TRYING.
COMMUNITY I WAS JUST WITH
AND THE INTERNATIONAL
UNICEF TODAY, CANVASSING
COMMUNITY I WAS JUST WITH
ANOTHER AREA OF TOWN, TRYING
UNICEF TODAY, CANVASSING
TO EXPLAIN TO PEOPLE HOW TO
ANOTHER AREA OF TOWN, TRYING
PREVENT THE DISEASEMENT I
TO EXPLAIN TO PEOPLE HOW TO
WOULD NOT SAY THERE'S
PREVENT THE DISEASEMENT I
GENERAL PANIC.
WOULD NOT SAY THERE'S
I WOULD EXPECT THERE TO BE
GENERAL PANIC.
MORE, QUITE FRANKLY.
I WOULD EXPECT THERE TO BE
PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED BUT
MORE, QUITE FRANKLY.
THEY'RE CONCERNED ABOUT LOTS
PEOPLE ARE CONCERNED BUT
OF THINGS.
THEY'RE CONCERNED ABOUT LOTS
THERE'S LOTS OF REASONS THAT
OF THINGS.
PEOPLE GET SICK IN THIS
THERE'S LOTS OF REASONS THAT
COUNTRY.
PEOPLE GET SICK IN THIS
>> Brown: YOU'VE ALSO BEEN
COUNTRY.
DOCUMENTING BURIALS AND
>> Brown: YOU'VE ALSO BEEN
OTHER PARTS OF CULTURAL LIFE
DOCUMENTING BURIALS AND
AFFECTED BY WHAT IS
OTHER PARTS OF CULTURAL LIFE
HAPPENING.
AFFECTED BY WHAT IS
GIVE US AN EXAMPLE OF HOW
HAPPENING.
EVERY DAY LIFE IS AFFECTED
GIVE US AN EXAMPLE OF HOW
AND IN SOME CASES MAKES IT
EVERY DAY LIFE IS AFFECTED
HARDER, PERHAPS TOED A ES
AND IN SOME CASES MAKES IT
THE DISEASE.
HARDER, PERHAPS TOED A ES
>> EVERY DAY LIFE IS
THE DISEASE.
AFFECTED IN THAT THE SCHOOLS
>> EVERY DAY LIFE IS
AND HOSPITALS AND CLININGS
AFFECTED IN THAT THE SCHOOLS
ARE MOSTLY ALL CLOSED.
AND HOSPITALS AND CLININGS
AND IF YOU ARE'S SICK FROM
ARE MOSTLY ALL CLOSED.
SOME OTHER DISEASE OR IF YOU
AND IF YOU ARE'S SICK FROM
ARE HAVING A BABY OR IF YOU
SOME OTHER DISEASE OR IF YOU
ARE DOING THE THINGS WE DO
ARE HAVING A BABY OR IF YOU
AS HUMANS, YOU SOMETIMES
ARE DOING THE THINGS WE DO
NEED MEDICAL ATTENTION.
AS HUMANS, YOU SOMETIMES
AND WITHOUT THESE FACILITIES
NEED MEDICAL ATTENTION.
OPEN, PEOPLE ARE SICK AND
AND WITHOUT THESE FACILITIES
DYING OF THINGS THAT THEY
OPEN, PEOPLE ARE SICK AND
SHOULDN'T BE SICK AND DYING
DYING OF THINGS THAT THEY
OF.
SHOULDN'T BE SICK AND DYING
AND SO THE DISEASE IS
OF.
AFFECTING THE HEALTH SYSTEM
AND SO THE DISEASE IS
IN OTHER WAYS, THE HEALTH
AFFECTING THE HEALTH SYSTEM
SYSTEM THAT HAS REALLY
IN OTHER WAYS, THE HEALTH
COLLAPSED.
SYSTEM THAT HAS REALLY
>> Brown: AND LOOKING AT THE
COLLAPSED.
PHOTOGRAPHS YOU'RE ABLE TO
>> Brown: AND LOOKING AT THE
TAKE, AND HOW CLOSE TO THE
PHOTOGRAPHS YOU'RE ABLE TO
SITUATION YOU ARE, WHAT
TAKE, AND HOW CLOSE TO THE
PRECAUTIONS DO YOU YOURSELF
SITUATION YOU ARE, WHAT
TAKE.
PRECAUTIONS DO YOU YOURSELF
>> I CAME TO LIBERIA WITH A
TAKE.
FULL SET OF WHAT THEY CALL
>> I CAME TO LIBERIA WITH A
PPE WHICH IS PERSONAL
FULL SET OF WHAT THEY CALL
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
PPE WHICH IS PERSONAL
WHICH IS ANTI-CONTAMINATION
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
CLOTHING.
WHICH IS ANTI-CONTAMINATION
I CAME WITH MANY SETS OF
CLOTHING.
COVER-ALLS, GLOVES, GOGGLES,
I CAME WITH MANY SETS OF
BOOT COVERS, ALL SORTS OF
COVER-ALLS, GLOVES, GOGGLES,
THINGS, WIPES AND LOTS OF
BOOT COVERS, ALL SORTS OF
FAN ADVERTISE-- SANITIZER,
THINGS, WIPES AND LOTS OF
THINGS TO KEEP ME HEALTHY.
FAN ADVERTISE-- SANITIZER,
ALL THESE THINGS ARE ONE
THINGS TO KEEP ME HEALTHY.
TIME USE, THEY GET DISPOSED
ALL THESE THINGS ARE ONE
OF AFTER I GO INTO AN
TIME USE, THEY GET DISPOSED
INFECTED AREA.
OF AFTER I GO INTO AN
AND I DRESS WITH TEAMS WHO
INFECTED AREA.
ARE GOING IN TO COLLECT
AND I DRESS WITH TEAMS WHO
BODIES AND I UNDRESS ALL
ARE GOING IN TO COLLECT
THESE ITEMS WITH THEM, SO
BODIES AND I UNDRESS ALL
THEY ARE SPRAYING ME WITH
THESE ITEMS WITH THEM, SO
DISINFECT TENANT THE WHOLE
THEY ARE SPRAYING ME WITH
TIME.
DISINFECT TENANT THE WHOLE
I'M DOING MY BEST TO STAY
TIME.
SAFE.
I'M DOING MY BEST TO STAY
>> Brown: JOHN MOORE, DO
SAFE.
TAKE CARE AND THANK YOU
>> Brown: JOHN MOORE, DO
AGAIN FOR JOINING US.
TAKE CARE AND THANK YOU
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, ADDRESSING
THE HIGH TURNOVER RATE AMONG
PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS.
JOHN TULENKO OF LEARNING MATTERS
TELEVISION, WHICH PRODUCES
REPORTS FOR THE NEWSHOUR, LOOKS
AT A BOSTON SCHOOL WHERE THE
TEACHERS HAVE TAKEN CHARGE.
>> FOR MORE THAN 20 YEARS
SUSAN LOVED BEING A PUBLIC
SCHOOLTEACHER BUT STARTING
AROUND 2001 WITH PASSAGE OF
THE EDUCATION LAW KNOWN AS
NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND HERE
FEELINGS BEGAN TO CHANGE.
>> I STARTED TO FEEL
DEADENED.
I FELT LIKE I HAD LOST
INSPIRATION.
I WASN'T ABLE TO TEACH IN
THE WAY THAT I HAD LEARNED
HOW TO TEACH.
>> Reporter: HER
CHILD-CENTERED APPROACH FELL
OUT OF FAVOR AS TESTING AND
ACCOUNTABILITY BECAME THE
NEW BUZZWORDS.
>> ALMOST LIKE A TSUNAMI OF
DATA COLLECTION FRENZY.
SUCH A SHIFT.
YOU HAVE TO DO THIS BECAUSE
WE WANT THIS NUMBER, WE WANT
THIS RESULT ON THE TEST.
>> Reporter: GRADUALLY HER
FRUSTRATIONS GREW AND LAST
MARCH, SLIDER QUIT.
>> I FELT, I GOT TO A POINT
WHERE I WAS FEELING LIKE I
WAS CONTRIBUTING TO TO PAIN
FOR CHILDREN.
AND I DIDN'T WANT TO DO THAT
ANY MORE.
I COULDN'T KEEP TEACHING AND
HOLD ON TO ANY INTEGRITY.
>> THIS IT AN INCREDIBLY
HARD TIME TO BE A TEACHER.
I REALLY FEEL VERY, VERY
BADLY FOR THOSE IN THE
CLASSROOM EVERY SINGLE DAY.
I DON'T THINK THEIR WORK IS
RESPECTED OR APPRECIATED.
AND I THINK TOO OFTEN THEY
FEEL DICTATED TO.
>> Reporter: TO EDUCATION
PROFESSOR TONY WAGNER OF
HARVARD UNIVERSITY,
TOP-DOWN CLIMATE IN MANY
PUBLIC SCHOOLS IS
CONTRIBUTING IT TO AN EXODUS
OF TEACHERS, SOME 8%, MORE
THAN 200,000 QUIT EACH YEAR.
AND A NATIONAL SURVEY FOUND
DISSATISFACTION WITH THE JOB
HAS INCREASED FROM 40% FOUR
YEARS AGO TO NEARLY 60%
TODAY.
>> MOVING ON.
>> Reporter: BUT RATHER THAN
QUIT, SOME TEACHERS ARE
TAKING BACK THEIR CLASSROOMS
IN WHAT ARE CALLED
TEACHER-LED SCHOOLS LIKE
MISSION HILL SCHOOL IN
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS.
CATHY DEANDREA TEACHES
KINDERGARTEN.
>> WE'RE DEMOCRATIC NOT JUST
IN THEORY BUT IN PRACTICE.
ANYTHING THAT COMES DOWN THE
PIKE IS A CONVERSATION,
RIGHT.
THIS IS HOW I'M FEELING,
THIS IS WHAT IS HAPPENING.
>> SO WHAT I WANT TO DO IS
STRATEGIZE-- .
>> Reporter: MISSION HILL IS
ONE OF ABOUT 70 TEACHER-LED
SCHOOLS THAT VERY MERGED
AROUND THE COUNTRY IN RECENT
YEARS.
SOME OF THEM CHOOSE TO
OPERATE WITHOUT A SCHOOL
PRINCL.AVE ONE, BUT THE
JOB'S DIFFERENT.
WHEN YOU HAVE A DECISION TO
MAKE IN THIS SCHOOL, DO YOU
GET THE FINAL WORD?
>> I DON'T GET THE FINAL
WORD.
>> THE PRINCIPAL WHO
PREFERRED TO BE CALLED LEAD
TEACHER DOESN'T EVEN GET THE
TRADITIONAL PRIVATE OFFICE.
>> IT'S REALLY A JOINT
EFFORT.
I DON'T HAVE ALL THE SKILLS
ALL THE BACKGROUND, ALL THE
TALENTED THAT THIS GROUP
HAS.
>> 2, 3, 4 HEADS ARE BETTER
THAN ONE.
>> YEAH.
>> IN LINE WITH THAT
THINKING, ALL DECISIONS,
CURRICULUM, BUDGET, HIRING
ARE VOTED ON BY THE ENTIRE
STAFF NOTHING GOES FORWARD
UNTIL EVERYONE AGREES.
>> WHEN WE MAKE DECISIONS WE
HAVE A RAISE OF HANDS, SO
FIVE, YOU STRONGLY AGREE,
FOUR, YOU AGREE, YOU HAVE
SOME RESER NATIONS BUT QU
LIVE WITH IT, BUT IF YOU PUT
A 1 YOU DISAGREE AND WE
STOP.
WE DON'T GO ON UNTIL
EVERYONE CAN SAY THEY HAVE A
5 OR A 4.
>> WITH THIS AUTHORITY,
TEACHERS DECIDE THE LOOK AND
FEEL OF THEIR CLASSROOMS.
THERE'S LOTS OF LOW LIGHTING
AND SOOTHING MUSIC, ARTS AND
CRAFTS ARE EVERYWHERE, ALL
PART OF MISSION HILLS
PERSONALITY.
TEACHER JEN ERA.
>> WE'RE NOT GOING TO USE A
PACKAGE CURRICULUM, WE'RE
GOING TO USE STUDENT VOICES
TO SHAPE OUR CURRICULUM.
WE'RE GOING TO SHAPE OUR
CURRICULUM AROUND THEIR
INTERESTS.
I THINK AT MOST OTHER
SCHOOLS IT'S A LOT OF YOU
WILL FOLLOW THIS.
YOU MUST FOLLOW THIS AND
THERE'S NEVER ANY ROOM TO
BREATHE.
>> Reporter: BUT EVEN THOSE
WHO FAVOR GIVING TEACHERS
MORE SAY HAVE RESERVATIONS.
TONY WAGNER.
>> TOO OFTEN I THINK THE
TEACHING PROFESSION IS KIND
OF HEADS DOWN GET THE JOB
DONE, YOU KNOW, FOCUS ON THE
KIDS IN FRONT OF YOU, DO
WHAT'S REQUIRED, WITHOUT
HAVING THE TIME TO SORT OF
LOOK AROUND AND REFLECT HOW
IS THE WORLD CHANGING.
HOW IS WHAT I'M TEACHING
TODAY DIFFERENT FROM WHAT I
TAUGHT TEN OR 20 YEARS AGO.
HOW DOES IT NEED TO BE
DIFFERENT.
>> Reporter: TEACHERS HERE
LIKE THIS MODEL SO MUCH
THERE'S VERY LITTLE
TURNOVER.
BUT IT HAS ITS DRAWBACKS
WHEN IT COMES TO MAKING HARD
DECISIONS.
WITH EVERYONE VOTING AND
CONSENSUS REQUIRED.
>> WHAT HAPPENS IF YOU CAN'T
>> WE GET SOMEONE TO HELP
US.
WE TALK AND TALK AND TALK
AND IT COULD TAKE MONTHS TO
DECIDE.
>> SO THAT LEAD PERCENT
AFFECTLY TO MY NEXT
QUESTION.
RAISE YOUR HAND IF YOU AGREE
WITH THIS STATEMENT.
IN THIS SCHOOL WE SPEND TOO
MUCH TIME TALKING AND TOO
LITTLE TIME DECIDING.
OKAY.
>> IN THIS SCHOOL WE DON'T
TALK AND TALK AND TALK AND
THINGS DON'T HAPPEN.
WE TALK AND TALK SO
THINGS HAPPEN.
>> SOME PEOPLE MIGHT FIND
THAT A VERY FRUSTRATING WAY
TO WORK.
>> I THINK IT'S AN ESSENTIAL
THING.
EVERY TIME THERE IS A
SITUATION AND WE'RE IN
DISAGREEMENT AND WE TALK AND
TALK AND TALK UNTIL WE ARE
IN AGREEMENT, IT UNCOVERS SO
MANY THINGS, OFTEN MANY
MISCONCEPTIONS OR LACK OF
TRUST OR WHATEVER, POISONOUS
THINGS THAT CAN GROW IN A
COMMUNITY, DOESN'T HAPPEN
HERE.
>> YOUR PATTERN.
>> DOES PUTTING TEACHERS IN
CHARGE RESULT IN STUDENTS
DOING BETTER?
HERE 40% OF THE STUDENTS ARE
PROFICIENT IN ENGLISH, IN
MATH 26%.
THAT'S ON PAR WITH THE REST
OF THE DISTRICT BUT STILL
LOW.
THE PUBLIC LOCKS AT YOUR
TEST SCORES AND SAYS IT'S
NOT WORKING.
HOW DO YOU RESPOND?
>> I THINK NO SCHOOL, NO
CHILD AND NO TEACHER SHOULD
BE EVALUATED ON ONE SLICE OF
THE PUZZLE.
>> Reporter: SO WHAT ELSE DO
YOU LOOK AT?
>> COME SEE IT.
SEE THE WORK, RIGHT, ASK
TEACHERS IN SCHOOLS TO PUT
TOGETHER PORTFOLIOS OF
STUDENT'S WORK SO YOU CAN
SEE THEIR PROGRESS.
BUT WHAT WE DON'T DO IS
CHANGE WHAT WE DO SO THAT WE
CAN ONLY DO BETTER ON THIS
TEST.
>> YOU HAVE TO TRUST THAT
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE CLOSEST
TO THE CHILD ARE WORKING IN
A CAPACITY OF EXCELLENCE.
YOU HAVE TO TRUST THAT THEY
KNOW CHILDREN WELL, AND ARE
TAKING CHILDREN WHERE THEY
NEED TO GO.
>> Reporter: BUT THE
CONUNDRUM IS THIS, HAS
STUDENT PERFORMANCE IMPROVED
BEFORE TEACHERS CAN BE
TRUSTED, OR CAN WE TRUST
THAT GREATER INDEPENDENCE
FOR TEACHERS WILL RESULT IN
HIGHER PERFORMANCE?
TONY WAGNER FAVORS THE
HANDS-OFF APPROACH BUT NOT
UNTIL WE FOLLOW THE LEAD OF
HIGHER PERFORMING COUNTRIES
LIKE FINLAND THAT DO FAR
MORE TO PREPARE TEACHERS FOR
THE JOB.
FINLAND SAID WE'VE GOT TO
BETTER PREPARE OUR TEACHERS
STARTING 35 YEARS AGO.
THEY CLOSED DOWN 80% OF THE
TEACHER PREPARATION
PROGRAMS.
SO THE MOTTO IN FINLAND
TODAY IS TRUST THROUGH
PROFESSIONALISM, NOT BLIND
TRUST, NOT TRUST NO MATTER
WHAT, IT IS THATAVE
PREPAOU TO BE
EXTRAORDINARY PROFESSIONALS,
NOW WE TRUST YOU TO BE THE
PROFESSIONALS WE'VE TRAINED
YOU TO BE.
>> HERE IN THIS COUNTRY WHEN
MANY STUDENTS FALL BEHIND
IT'S LIKELY DISTRICTS WILL
SIMPLY HAND TEACHERS THE
KEYS TO SCHOOL.
WAGNER'S TRAIN AND TRUST
APPROACH MAY BE THE BEST WAY
TO IMPROVE THEIR
SATISFACTION.
>> Woodruff: NEW WE LOOK AT
HUNGER IN AMERICA.
A STUDY RELEASED TODAY BY THE
NATION'S LARGEST FOOD BANK
NETWORK PAINTS A GRIM PICTURE.
JEFFRY IS BACK WITH THAT.
>> Reporter: THAT REPORT, BY THE
NONPROFIT FEEDING AMERICA, FOUND
THAT ROUGHLY ONE IN SEVEN PEOPLE
IN THE COUNTRY, 46 MILLION
PEOPLE, RELY ON FOOD BANKS OR
OTHER CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS
FOR BASIC NUTRITION.
THEY INCLUDED SOME 620,000
MILITARY HOUSEHOLDS AND AN
INCREASED NUMBER OF ADULT
COLLEGE STUDENTS.
FOOD BANK CLIENTS COME FROM ALL
DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS.
IN SUBURBS AS WELL AS URBAN
AREAS.
AND MANY REPORT FACING A CHOICE
BETWEEN BUYING FOOD AND PAYING
FOR UTILITIES, RENT, MEDICINE
AND OTHER NECESSITIES.
JOINING US IS DEBORAH FLATEMAN,
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MARYLAND
FOOD BANK.
SHE SITS ON FEEDING AMERICA'S
BOARD.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: ON A GENERAL LEVEL
FIRST WHAT DO WE LEARN ON
THIS REPORT ABOUT WHO IS
HUNGRY IN AMERICA?
>> YOU KNOW, HONESTLY, FROM
MY POINT OF VIEW IT VERIFIES
WHAT WE HAVE BEEN SEEING
TRENDING OVER THE PAST FEW
YEARS.
I THINK ONE OF THE MOST
SIGNIFICANT PIECES OF DATA
TELLS US THAT MORE THAN HALF
OF THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
ACCNG
EMERGENCY FEEDING SYSTEM
INCLUDING FOOD BANKS AN FOOD
SHELVES ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
WORKING.
>> Brown: THAT HAVE JOBS.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Brown: BUT IT'S NOT
ENOUGH.
>> THAT'S RIGHT, IT'S NOT
WE'VE BEEN SEEING THAT
ENOUGH.
ANECDOTALLY THROUGH OUR
WE'VE BEEN SEEING THAT
AGENCIES FOR SEVERAL YEARS
ANECDOTALLY THROUGH OUR
NOW.
AGENCIES FOR SEVERAL YEARS
>> Brown: SO I MEAN IT'S
NOW.
INTERESTING TO COMPARE IT TO
>> Brown: SO I MEAN IT'S
THE HEIGHT OF THE RECESSION,
INTERESTING TO COMPARE IT TO
THINGS HAVE GOTTEN BETTER IN
THE HEIGHT OF THE RECESSION,
SOME WAYS, PEOPLE MIGHT EVEN
THINGS HAVE GOTTEN BETTER IN
HAVE JOBS BUT STILL NOT
SOME WAYS, PEOPLE MIGHT EVEN
ABATING.
HAVE JOBS BUT STILL NOT
>> RIGHT.
ABATING.
AN INTERESTING EXAMPLE OF
>> RIGHT.
THAT IS RECENTLY THE STEEL
AN INTERESTING EXAMPLE OF
MILLS IN BALTIMORE, FOR
THAT IS RECENTLY THE STEEL
INSTANCE, CLOSED DOWN.
MILLS IN BALTIMORE, FOR
AND SO THE FOLKS WHO ARE
INSTANCE, CLOSED DOWN.
GOING TO BE ABLE TO FIND
AND SO THE FOLKS WHO ARE
EMPLOYMENT HAVE TO GO
GOING TO BE ABLE TO FIND
THROUGH RETRAINING.
EMPLOYMENT HAVE TO GO
WE'RE SENDING TRACKER
THROUGH RETRAINING.
TRAILER LOADS OF FOOD OVER
WE'RE SENDING TRACKER
TO HELP THEM OUT ON A
TRAILER LOADS OF FOOD OVER
MONTHLY BASIS BECAUSE EVEN
TO HELP THEM OUT ON A
IF THEY RETRAIN AND REENTER
MONTHLY BASIS BECAUSE EVEN
THE MARKET, THEY'RE NOT
IF THEY RETRAIN AND REENTER
GOING TO MAKE THE LEVEL OF
THE MARKET, THEY'RE NOT
INCOME THAT THEY DID.
GOING TO MAKE THE LEVEL OF
>> Brown: YOU'RE IN
INCOME THAT THEY DID.
MARYLAND.
>> Brown: YOU'RE IN
>> YES.
MARYLAND.
>> Brown: A RELATIVELY
>> YES.
WELL-OFF STATE.
>> Brown: A RELATIVELY
>> EXACTLY.
WELL-OFF STATE.
SO ISN'T IT SHOCKING THAT,
>> EXACTLY.
YOU KNOW, SOME 10, 11% OF
SO ISN'T IT SHOCKING THAT,
MARYLAND POPULATION ARE
YOU KNOW, SOME 10, 11% OF
PEOPLE WHO ARE LIVING ON THE
MARYLAND POPULATION ARE
EMERGENCY FEEDING ASSISTANCE
PEOPLE WHO ARE LIVING ON THE
PROGRAM.
EMERGENCY FEEDING ASSISTANCE
>> Brown: IT'S ALSO
PROGRAM.
INTERESTING THAT SOMETHING
>> Brown: IT'S ALSO
WE HAVE LOOKED AT IN THE
INTERESTING THAT SOMETHING
PROGRAMMING THE LAST YEAR IS
WE HAVE LOOKED AT IN THE
THAT THIS IS NOT IN ANY WAY
PROGRAMMING THE LAST YEAR IS
JUST AN URBAN PHENOMENON ANY
THAT THIS IS NOT IN ANY WAY
MORE.
JUST AN URBAN PHENOMENON ANY
>> NO, THAT'S VERY TRUE.
MORE.
IN FACT, YOU KNOW, WE SEE
>> NO, THAT'S VERY TRUE.
THAT IT'S EVEN AN ADDED
IN FACT, YOU KNOW, WE SEE
LAYER OF DIFFICULTY FOR
THAT IT'S EVEN AN ADDED
THOSE WHO LIVE IN RURAL
LAYER OF DIFFICULTY FOR
AREAS BECAUSE ACCESS TO FOOD
THOSE WHO LIVE IN RURAL
IS MORE DIFFICULT IN THOSE
AREAS BECAUSE ACCESS TO FOOD
AREAS.
IS MORE DIFFICULT IN THOSE
IF YOU DON'T HAVE
AREAS.
TRANSPORTATION, YOU CAN'T
IF YOU DON'T HAVE
GET TO YOUR LOCAL FOOD
TRANSPORTATION, YOU CAN'T
PANTRY.
GET TO YOUR LOCAL FOOD
SO YOU KNOW, WE'RE VERY
PANTRY.
CONCERNED WITH THAT AS WELL.
SO YOU KNOW, WE'RE VERY
>> Brown: A COUPLE OF
CONCERNED WITH THAT AS WELL.
POPULATIONS ON THIS REPORT
>> Brown: A COUPLE OF
REALLY JUMPED OUT AT US HERE
POPULATIONS ON THIS REPORT
AND I THINK WOULD SURPRISE A
REALLY JUMPED OUT AT US HERE
LOT OF PEOPLE.
AND I THINK WOULD SURPRISE A
ONE IS THE NUMBER OF
LOT OF PEOPLE.
MILITARY FAMILIES.
ONE IS THE NUMBER OF
>> RIGHT.
MILITARY FAMILIES.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU SEE
>> RIGHT.
HAPPENING?
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU SEE
>> YOU KNOW, I KNOW THAT IN
HAPPENING?
MARYLAND, FOR INSTANCE, YOU
>> YOU KNOW, I KNOW THAT IN
KNOW, WE'VE GOT A HIGH
MARYLAND, FOR INSTANCE, YOU
CONCENTRATION OF BASES.
KNOW, WE'VE GOT A HIGH
WE HAVE A LOT OF MILITARY IN
CONCENTRATION OF BASES.
MARYLAND.
WE HAVE A LOT OF MILITARY IN
AND YOU KNOW, WE'RE ABOUT
MARYLAND.
OVER 6% OF ALL OF THEPE
AND YOU KNOW, WE'RE ABOUT
THAT WE SERVE ARE PEOPLE WHO
OVER 6% OF ALL OF THEPE
ARE IN ACTIVE MILITARY,
THAT WE SERVE ARE PEOPLE WHO
RIGHT.
ARE IN ACTIVE MILITARY,
YOU KNOW, WHAT DO I MAKE OF
RIGHT.
IT?
YOU KNOW, WHAT DO I MAKE OF
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW,
IT?
PEOPLE OF ALL TYPES ARE
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW,
FALLING ON HARDSHIP.
PEOPLE OF ALL TYPES ARE
AND ONCE THEY FALL, IT'S
FALLING ON HARDSHIP.
DIFFICULT TO GET YOURSELF
AND ONCE THEY FALL, IT'S
OUT.
DIFFICULT TO GET YOURSELF
YOU KNOW, THE COST OF LIVING
OUT.
IN MARYLAND IS VERY HIGH.
YOU KNOW, THE COST OF LIVING
IT'S NOT SURPRISING TO ME.
IN MARYLAND IS VERY HIGH.
>> WHAT KIND OF NEEDS DO
IT'S NOT SURPRISING TO ME.
THEY HAVE, ARE THEY SIMILAR
>> WHAT KIND OF NEEDS DO
TO-- .
THEY HAVE, ARE THEY SIMILAR
>> YES, THEY ARE FAMILIES
TO-- .
JUST LIKE EVERY OTHER FAMILY
>> YES, THEY ARE FAMILIES
THAT WE SEE AT OUR AGENCY.
JUST LIKE EVERY OTHER FAMILY
>> ANOTHER POPULATION IS
THAT WE SEE AT OUR AGENCY.
COLLEGE STUDENTS, THESE ARE
>> ANOTHER POPULATION IS
MOSTLY A ADULT STUDENTS.
COLLEGE STUDENTS, THESE ARE
>> YES, WELL, YOU CAN
MOSTLY A ADULT STUDENTS.
IMAGINE, YOU'RE TRYING TO GO
>> YES, WELL, YOU CAN
THROUGH THAT ADVANCED
IMAGINE, YOU'RE TRYING TO GO
DEGREE.
THROUGH THAT ADVANCED
YOU MIGHT BE MARRIED.
DEGREE.
YOU'RE LIVING IN MARRIED
YOU MIGHT BE MARRIED.
HOUSING.
YOU'RE LIVING IN MARRIED
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE DOING THE
HOUSING.
WORK THAT YOU NEED TO DO,
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE DOING THE
NOT NECESSARILY MAKING THE
WORK THAT YOU NEED TO DO,
MONEY THAT YOU ACTUALLY NEED
NOT NECESSARILY MAKING THE
TO SUSTAIN.
MONEY THAT YOU ACTUALLY NEED
SO IT IS'S NOT SURPRISING.
TO SUSTAIN.
>> Brown: TELL US HOW ALL
SO IT IS'S NOT SURPRISING.
THIS IMPACTS THE WORK THAT
>> Brown: TELL US HOW ALL
YOU AND OTHER FOOD BANKS
THIS IMPACTS THE WORK THAT
AROUND THE COUNTRY ARE
YOU AND OTHER FOOD BANKS
TRYING TO DO.
AROUND THE COUNTRY ARE
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, A COUPLE
TRYING TO DO.
OF THINGS, I WOULD SAY.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, A COUPLE
ONE IS WE WERE CONCERNED
OF THINGS, I WOULD SAY.
ABOUT THE CONDITION
ONE IS WE WERE CONCERNED
HEALTHWISE OF MANY OF THE
ABOUT THE CONDITION
PEOPLE WHO RESPONDED TO THIS
HEALTHWISE OF MANY OF THE
STUDY THAT A LARGE PASSAGE
PEOPLE WHO RESPONDED TO THIS
OF PEOPLE HAVE DIABETES.
STUDY THAT A LARGE PASSAGE
A LARGE PERCENTAGE HAD HIGH
OF PEOPLE HAVE DIABETES.
BLOOD PRESSURE.
A LARGE PERCENTAGE HAD HIGH
A LOT OF THAT HAS TO DO WITH
BLOOD PRESSURE.
THE HIGH COST OF FOOD.
A LOT OF THAT HAS TO DO WITH
AND SPENDING MONEY ON
THE HIGH COST OF FOOD.
CHEAPER, LESS HEALTHY FOOD,
AND SPENDING MONEY ON
JUST SO THAT THEIR DOLLARS
CHEAPER, LESS HEALTHY FOOD,
CAN GO FARTHER SO FROM OUR
JUST SO THAT THEIR DOLLARS
PERSPECTIVE IF WE CAN GET A
CAN GO FARTHER SO FROM OUR
MORE NUTRITIOUS MIX OUT INTO
PERSPECTIVE IF WE CAN GET A
THE FIELD, LOTS OF FRESH
MORE NUTRITIOUS MIX OUT INTO
PRODUCE, SO WE HAVE BEEN
THE FIELD, LOTS OF FRESH
FOCUSING ON, I KNOW FEEDING
PRODUCE, SO WE HAVE BEEN
AMERICA IS VERY FOCUSED ON
FOCUSING ON, I KNOW FEEDING
BUILDING OUR PRODUCE PROGRAM
AMERICA IS VERY FOCUSED ON
BECAUSE THAT IS GOING TO BE
BUILDING OUR PRODUCE PROGRAM
OUR ANSWER TO ROUNDING OUT
BECAUSE THAT IS GOING TO BE
NUTRITION.
OUR ANSWER TO ROUNDING OUT
>> Rooney: THIS IS ONE OF
NUTRITION.
THE SADDER ASPECTS TO THE
>> Rooney: THIS IS ONE OF
REPORT.
THE SADDER ASPECTS TO THE
THE WAY IT LOOKS IS THAT
REPORT.
PEOPLE ARE, THEY SAY THEY'RE
THE WAY IT LOOKS IS THAT
MAKING POOR CHOICES.
PEOPLE ARE, THEY SAY THEY'RE
THEY KNOW THEY'RE MAKING
MAKING POOR CHOICES.
POOR CHOICES IN TERMS OF THE
THEY KNOW THEY'RE MAKING
LACK OF HEALTH IN FOOD AND
POOR CHOICES IN TERMS OF THE
NOT BUYING THE MOST HEALTHY
LACK OF HEALTH IN FOOD AND
FOOD.
NOT BUYING THE MOST HEALTHY
BECAUSE THEY CAN'T, BECAUSE
FOOD.
IT'S NOT ACCESSIBLE, BECAUSE
BECAUSE THEY CAN'T, BECAUSE
OF PRICE, WHY?
IT'S NOT ACCESSIBLE, BECAUSE
>> I THINK BECAUSE OF PRICE.
OF PRICE, WHY?
I THINK THEY'RE JUST TRYING
>> I THINK BECAUSE OF PRICE.
TO MEET THE IMMEDIATE NEED
I THINK THEY'RE JUST TRYING
OF HUNG THEY ARE IN THE
TO MEET THE IMMEDIATE NEED
LEAST EXPENSIVE WAY.
OF HUNG THEY ARE IN THE
AND IT MEANS THAT, AND IT
LEAST EXPENSIVE WAY.
ALSO HAS A LOT TO DO WITH
AND IT MEANS THAT, AND IT
ACCESS.
ALSO HAS A LOT TO DO WITH
AND SO THE OTHER THING THAT
ACCESS.
WE'RE FOCUSING ON IS WHAT
AND SO THE OTHER THING THAT
ARE WE DOING AS A FOOD BANK
WE'RE FOCUSING ON IS WHAT
NETWORK TO MAKE SURE THAT
ARE WE DOING AS A FOOD BANK
WE'RE GETTING ADEQUATE
NETWORK TO MAKE SURE THAT
AMOUNTS OF FOOD INTO EVERY
WE'RE GETTING ADEQUATE
AREA THAT WE SERVE.
AMOUNTS OF FOOD INTO EVERY
I KNOW FOOD BANKS ACROSS THE
AREA THAT WE SERVE.
COUNTRY ARE BUILDING OUT
I KNOW FOOD BANKS ACROSS THE
MOBILE FOOD PANTRY PROGRAMS.
COUNTRY ARE BUILDING OUT
AND YOU KNOW, WEDO LOT OF
MOBILE FOOD PANTRY PROGRAMS.
THINGS WITH SUMMER FEEDING
AND YOU KNOW, WEDO LOT OF
FOR YOUTH, FOR INSTANCE,
THINGS WITH SUMMER FEEDING
TAKING HOT MEALS OUT TO KIDS,
FOR YOUTH, FOR INSTANCE,
YOU KNOW, DURING THE
TAKING HOT MEALS OUT TO KIDS,
SUMMERTIME AND AFTER SCHOOL.
YOU KNOW, DURING THE
SO IT IS'S MEETING PEOPLE
SUMMERTIME AND AFTER SCHOOL.
WHERE THE NEED IS.
SO IT IS'S MEETING PEOPLE
>> Brown: AND WHAT ABOUT THE
WHERE THE NEED IS.
SUPPORT THAT YOU GET, IS IT
>> Brown: AND WHAT ABOUT THE
ENOUGH?
SUPPORT THAT YOU GET, IS IT
ARE YOU HAVING TO FIND NEW
ENOUGH?
WAYS TO RAISE MONEY, AND TO
ARE YOU HAVING TO FIND NEW
GET FOOD?
WAYS TO RAISE MONEY, AND TO
>> YOU KNOW, WE, YES, YOU
GET FOOD?
ALWAYS HAVE TO FIND NEW
>> YOU KNOW, WE, YES, YOU
WAYS.
ALWAYS HAVE TO FIND NEW
>> Brown: THAT WAS EASY
WAYS.
QUESTION.
>> Brown: THAT WAS EASY
>> TO FIND FOOD AND FUNDS.
QUESTION.
YES, IT WAS.
>> TO FIND FOOD AND FUNDS.
BUT YOU KNOW, I'M JUST
YES, IT WAS.
REALLY ENCOURAGED AND THIS
BUT YOU KNOW, I'M JUST
STUDY IS GOING TO HELP A LOT,
REALLY ENCOURAGED AND THIS
I THINK, BRINGING TO LIGHT
STUDY IS GOING TO HELP A LOT,
FOR THE GENERAL PUBLIC, THAT
I THINK, BRINGING TO LIGHT
IF WE GET BEHIND THIS
FOR THE GENERAL PUBLIC, THAT
MOVEMENT OF ENDING HUNGER,
IF WE GET BEHIND THIS
WE CAN ACTUALLY END HUNGER
MOVEMENT OF ENDING HUNGER,
IN THIS COUNTRY.
WE CAN ACTUALLY END HUNGER
AND I TRULY BELIEVE IT.
IN THIS COUNTRY.
LET THIS DATA SPEAK TO ALL
AND I TRULY BELIEVE IT.
OF US AND LET ALL OF US GET
LET THIS DATA SPEAK TO ALL
INVOLVED.
OF US AND LET ALL OF US GET
>> Brown: DEBORAH FLATEMAN
INVOLVED.
OF THE MARYLAND FOOD DRIVE,
>> Brown: DEBORAH FLATEMAN
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
OF THE MARYLAND FOOD DRIVE,
>> THANKS, JEFF.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANNOUNCED THIS AFTERNOON THAT
CONTROL OVER A CRITICAL DAM IN
NORTHERN IRAQ HAD BEEN TAKEN
AWAY FROM SUNNI MILITANTS.
THE MOSUL DAM WAS CAPTURED BY
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP EARLIER
THIS MONTH.
BUT THIS WEEKEND, THERE
CONFLICTING REPORTS OVER WHO WAS
IN FULL CONTROL OVER THE
FACILITY AS IRAQI GOVERNMENT
TROOPS AND KURDISH PESHMERGA
FORCES ADVANCED ON THE DAM WITH
THE HELP OF AMERICAN AIR
SUPPORT.
THE DAM IS JUST ONE FRONTLINE IN
THE BATTLE AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP.
OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER IS
ON ANOTHER NEARBY WHERE
PERSHMERGA FIGHTERS ARE TRYING
TO HOLD RECENTLY REGAINED GROUND
AGAINST THE SUNNI MILITANTS.
>> Warner: 60 MILES DUE EAST
OF MOSUL LIES THE BOOMING
CITY OF IRBIL, CAPFUL TO THE
SEMI AUTONOMOUS REGION OF
IRAQI KURDISTAN, HOME TO
U.S. AND FOREIGN COMPANIES
DRAWN BY ITS OIL WEALTH AND
DEVELOPMENT PROSPECTS.
OFFICE TOWERS RISE NEAR HIGH-END
CAR DEALERSHIPS, ALL BAKING
IN THE 115 SUMMER HEAT OF
THE DESERT.
SAVING THIS CITY FROM THE
ONSLAUGHT OF ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS WAS ONE OF THE TWO
GOALS PRESIDENT O
BOMB-- OBAMA CITED IN
ANNOUNCING U.S. AIR STRIKES
ON AUGUST 7th.
THOUGH THE ADVANCE OF IS
ALSO KNOWN AS ISIS OR ISIL
ON IRBIL WAS HALTED AND
ROLLED BACK, U.S. AIR
STRIKES IN THE AREA
CONTINUE.
AND BENEATH THE BUSTLE OF
DAILY LIFE HERE, THERE IS
STILL A SENSE OF FOREBODING.
>> OF COURSE I'M SO WORRIED
EVERY NIGHT WHEN I LIE DOWN
ON MY BED.
>> Warner: FOR GOOD REASON.
JUST 40 MILES SOUTHWEST
OUTSIDE A TOWN, KURDISH
MILITARY UNITS THE PESHMERGA
MAN THE FRONT LINES AGAINST
THE FUNDAMENTALIST ISLAMIC
STATE FORCE
THE TOWN WAS TAKEN OVER BY
THE ISLAMIST MILITANTS JUST
TWO WEEKS AGO USING
SOPHISTICATED AMERICAN-MADE
WEAPONS CAPTURED IN JUNE
FROM FLEEING IRAQI ARMY
UNITS IN THE CITY OF MOSUL.
BUT THREE DAYS LATER
UNDERCOVER OF U.S. AIR
STRIKES, HITTING THAT ISIS
HEAVY WEAPONRY PESHMERGA
RETOOK THE DOWN FROM THE
FIGHTERS.
PESHMERGA COLONEL NOW
COMMANDS THE OPERATION HERE.
>> THE SECURITY SITUATION IS
EXCELLENT.
NO ONE INSIDE THE TOWN FEARS
THE SOUND ONGLE SHOT.
>> Warner: HOW IMPORTANT
WERE THE AMERICAN AIR
STRIKES.
>> THE AMERICAN ROLE WAS
VERY IMPORTANT, A VERY
IMPORTANT PSYCHOLOGICAL PLOT
FOR THE PESHMERGA.
DESTROYED MOST OF THE HEAVY
WEAPONS THAT ISIS HAD AND
MADE IT EASY FOR US TO
RETAKE THIS TOWN.
>> Warner: YET ALL IS NOT AS
SECURE AS IT SEEMS.
WE'RE ON THE VERY EDGE OF
THE FRONT LINE OF THE CITY,
LESS THAN ONE AND A HALF
MILES SOUTH OF HERE ARE ISIS
FORCES STILL WITH SOME
HEAVILY ARTILLERY.
BUT THE PESHMERGA FIGHTERS
HERE VOW NOT ONLY TO HOLD
THIS LINE, BUT TO ADVANCE.
WE WERE QUICKLY URGED TO
LEAVE AS THE PESHMERGA
PREPARED TO LAUNCH ROCKETS
AT ISLAMIC STATE ARTILLERY
NEARBY.
BACK IN THE TOWN, DESPITE
THE COLONEL'S ASSURANCES WE
FOUND A VIRTUAL GHOST TOWN.
ONLY A FEW HUNDRED OF ITS
NEARLY 20,000 RESIDENTS WHO
FLED HAVE RETURNED.
AMONG THEM, ENGLISH TEACHER
ZIAD MOHAMMED WHO UNLIKE
MOST RETURNEES HERE ACTUALLY
BROUGHT HIS FAMILY TOO.
HE DESCRIBED WHAT HAPPENED
WHEN ISLAMIC S FORCE
FORCES-- BEGAN SHELLING THE
TOWN AND THEN MOVED IN.
>> THEY ARE ATTACKING, YOU
SEE PEOPLE THE TOWN EMPTY,
MAYBE THE PEOPLE YOU SEE
HERE, THE PEOPLE COME-- .
>> Warner: WHY DID YOU COME
BACK?
>> BECAUSE YOU SEE, MY
BUILDING.
AND I LIKE MY SPACE, IF
THERE IS ANOTHER ATTACKING,
SHELLING.
BUT I DON'T FEAR FOR ISIL
BUT MAYBE I FEAR FOR MY
CHILDREN, FOR MY WIFE.
>> Warner: MOST INTERNALLY
DISPLACED IRAQIS HAVE DECIDE
THE RISK IS TOO HIGH TO GO
HOME.
TENS OF THOUSANDS ARE IN THE
IRBIL AREA, CAMPING OUT
WHEREVER THEY CAN FIND
SHELTER.
LIKE THESE 200 FAMILIES FROM
MOSUL PARKED TEMPORARILY IN
ABANDONED STOREFRONTS.
>> I WISH I COUL DIE NOW.
>> Warner: THIS WOMAN LIVING
WITH HER FAMILY IN A
RELATIVE'S OUTBUILDING IN
IRBIL ESCAPED THE ISIS
ONSLAUGHT ON HER TINY
VILLAGE ON THE OUTSKIRTS,
AND DESPITE THE RETAKING OF
MAHMOUR SHE'S TOO AFRAID TO
RETURN.
>> IF THE SITUATION REMAINS
LIKE NOW, NO.
WHERE CAN I GO BACK TO.
WE DON'T FEEL SAFE.
WE ARE AFRAID TO GO BACK
BECAUSE OF THE ARABS.
THEY WOULD KILL US.
>> Warner: DO YOU MEAN YOUR
OWN ARAB NEIGHBORS WOULD
HAVE KILL KD YOU OR ISIL
FIGHTERS.
>> YES, WE ARE ACTUALLY VERY
CLOSE TO ARABS.
THEIR VILLAGES ARE JUST NEXT
TO OURS.
THEY HAVE JOINED DAISH IN
THE FIGHT.
SHE AND HER FAMILY ARE AMONG
THE ESTIMATED 1.5 MILLION
IRAQIS WHO FLED THE ISIS
ADVANCE THROUGH THEIR
COUNTRY JUST SINCE JANUARY.
ACCOMPANYING US WHAT TAHIR,
SENIOR ADVISOR FOR THE
KURDISH REGIONAL
GOVERNMENT'S HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
HIS PHONE WAS CONSTANTLY
BUZZING WITH REPORTS OF NEW
WAVES OF INTERNALLY
DISPLACED PEOPLE POURING
INTO THE KURDISH REGION.
WHAT PLANS ARE YOU MAKING
FOR THE LONG-TERM CARE OF
THESE PEOPLE HERE IN IRAQI
KURDISTAN.
>> WE KNOW THE SITUATION MAY
LAST A LONG TIME.
SO THE GOVERNMENT HAS
LONG-TERM PLANS FOR THAT.
BUT THIS IS A HUGE BURDEN ON
THE GOVERNMENT'S SHOULDERS.
THIS IS WHY WE HAVE ASKED
INTERNATIONAL AGENCIES TO
HELP.
WE HAVE MILLIONS OF IDPs AND
REFUGEES.
AND IF THEY DON'T FEEL SAFE
TO GO HOME, THEY CANNOT
PROVIDE AID FOR ALL OF THEM
ALONE.
>> Warner: FOR HOW IT
APPEARS THE KURDISH
GOVERNMENT WAS ON THE HOOK.
WE WENT BACK TO A VILLAGE ON
THE OUTSKIRTS OF MAHMOUR BUT
HAD TO STOP MORE THAN A MILE
AWAY AFTER PESHMERGA
WARNINGS THAT THE ISLAMIC
STATE FORCES MAY HAVE BOOBY
TRAPPED HIS TOWN.
>> I WANT TO GO BACK, TO
BREATHE FREEDOM BUT I'M NOT
SURE I CAN.
BEFORE WE FLED, WE HAVE LOTS
OF ANIMALS.
SHEEP AND GOATS.
WE COULDN'T TAKE THEM AND
THEY DIED.
>> Warner: SO IF YOU GO BACK,
HOW WILL YOU SUPPORT
YOURSELF?
>> IF WE GET BACK, I'M
HOPEFUL WE CAN SORT IT OUT.
IF WE GET TO GO BACK, I'M
HOPEFUL WE CAN LIVE.
>> Warner: FOR NOW THE
CLOSEST CAN GET IS WITHIN
VIEW TO LOOK YEARNINGLY AT
HIS VILLAGE.
>> Woodruff: AND IMA AGO.
MARGARET, THANK YOU FOR
TALKING WITH US.
NOW THAT WE'VE HEARD
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAY THE
KURDISH PESHMERGA HAVE
RETAKEN THE MOSUL DAM, TELL
US ABOUT HOW HARD A FIGHT
THAT WAS, WHY SO MUCH
CONFUSION OVER WHO WAS IN
CONTROL?
>> Warner: WELL, JUDY, IT'S
A HUGE, A HUGE WIN T WAS NOT
JUST THE PESHMERGA, THE
KURDISH FIGHTERS BUT ALSO
THE IRAQI MILITARY WITH THE
HELP OF THE UNITSED STATES
TO RETAKE THIS DAM.
AND I'M TOLD ONE OF THE
REASONS FOR THE CONFUSION
WAS THAT IT REALLY WAS BACK
AND FORTH.
THE U.S. AIR STRIKES, THERE
WERE SOME 15 JUST TODAY
AROUND THE DAM, HAD TO BE
VERY TARGETED, VERY
PINPOINTED BECAUSE OF COURSE
THE RISK WAS THAT THIS DAM
WHICH SUPPLIES SO MUCH WATER
AND ELECTRICITY FOR ALL OF
IRAQ, ALONG THE
COULD GET DESTROYED BY THE
FIGHT OVER IT.
THERE WAS ALSO AN ANCILLARY
DAM, ALSO THE PROBLEM OF THE
FACT THAT THE ISLAMIC STATE
FIGHTERS LEFT BEHIND
LANDMINES AND BOOBY TRAPS.
SO REALLY THERE HAVE BEEN
CONFLICTING REPORTS FOR 48
HOURS, AND CLAIMS THAT WERE
NOT JUSTIFIED.
BUT IT WAS ALL COORDINATED
HERE IN IRBIL IN THIS JOINT
OPERATION CENTER SET UP BY
THE UNITED STATES,
INTELLIGENCE, SPECIAL FORCES
AND SO ON WITH THE KURDISH
MILITARY AND IRAQI MILITARY.
AND IT WAS UCHLTS IS
INTELLIGENCE AND AIR STRIKES
THAT COORDINATED WITH
FIGHTERS FROM BOTH THOSE
OTHER GROUPS TO TAKE THIS
DAM.
>> Woodruff: SO MARGARET, WE
HEARD IN YOUR REPORT THAT
THE KURDS REMAIN SCARED.
HOW MUCH ARE THEY COUNTING
ON THE U.S. TO CONTINUE AIR
STRIKES, TO CONTINUE OTHER
KINDS OF SUPPORT?
>> YEAH, JUDY, I'VE BEEN
AMAZED BEING HERE IN IRBIL
WHICH FEELS SAFE TO ME
COMPARED TO A PLACE LIKE
BAGHDAD.
A YOUNG DOCTOR TOLD ME TODAY
YOU SHOULD HAVE BEEN THERE
THREE WEEKS AGO.
WE WERE ALL SCARED TO DEATH.
HE SAID THANK GOD FOR
AMERICAN AIR STRIKES.
THE TOTAL MESSAGE WE'VE
GOTTEN HERE, WITHOUT THE
UMBRELLA OF AMERICAN AIR
STRIKES AND THE CONTINUED
THREAT OF THEM, YOU KNOW,
THERE WAS ONE AS RECENTLY AS
FRIDAY NIGHT, AND I'M TOLD
PRETTY RELIABLY THAT THAT
WAS ON ARTILLERY POSITION,
THE U.S. AND KURDISH
INTELLIGENCE IDENTIFIED, HAD
ARRANGED TO EVEN HIT HERE IN
IRBIL, THE STRIKES CONTINUE.
AND TO PEOPLE HERE THAT
MEANS A LOT.
>> Woodruff: WELL, HOW MUCH
MORE INDICATION IS THERE OF
WHAT THE U.S. IS PREPARED TO
DO MILITARILY?
>> Warner: JUDY, THAT'S ONLY
KNOWN BY THE MIND OF
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
AND BOTH U.S. AND KURDISH
OFFICIALS HERE SAY THEY
REALLY DON'T KNOW.
HE'S MADE IT CLEAR, HE JUST
SAID IN HIS STATEMENT THAT
HE WANTS TO DO MORE; THAT
IT'S NOT ENOUGH TO HAVE THE
ISLAMIC STROLLING
ONE-THIRD OF IRAQ,
ESSENTIALLY, WHICH THEY DO
NOW.
THE U.S. WILL, COUGH OF
COURSE, CONTINUE TO SEND
HUMANITARIAN EFFORT, AS HE
SAID.
BUT THE U.S. IS PREPARED TO
DO MORE IN THE WAY OF
INTELLIGENCE, IN THE WAY OF
FURNISHING WEAPONS, IF THERE
CAN BE A POLITICAL AGREEMENT
AMONG THE SUNNIS, THE
SHIITES A KURDS TO
WORK TOGETHER AND NOT JUST
POLITICALLY, NOT JUST A NICE
PHOTO OP POLITICALLY BUT
WORKING TOGETHER MILITARILY.
AND I CAN TELL YOU THAT IS
GOING TO BE VERY, VERY HARD.
THE SUNNIS AREN'T UNITED.
WE WERE ON THE FRONT LINES
AS YOU SAW IN OUR PIECE,
JUST YESTERDAY, OF KURDISH
PESHMERGA.
THEY'RE EVEN DIVIDE MOOD TWO
DIFFERENT PESHMERGAS
DEPENDING WHICH POLITICAL
PARTY THEY'RE PART OF.
SO EVEN THOUGH THERE IS A 30
DAY DEADLINE ON THIS, THERE
IS A LONG WAY TO GO BEFORE I
THINK THE PRESIDENT MAKES A
DECISION ON HOW MUCH MORE
AGGRESSIVELY HE IS GOING TO
COMMIT U.S. FIREPOWER, AIR
MILITARY POWER TO THE
EFFORT.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER
REPORTING FOR US FROM IRBIL
IN IRAQ.
WE THANK YOU.
>> Warner: MY PLEASURE JUDY,
AS ALWAYS.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE NATIONAL GUARD BEGAN
DEPLOYING IN FERGUSON, MISSOURI,
IN A BID TO PREVENT MORE
VIOLENCE OVER THE POLICE KILLING
OF A BLACK TEENAGER.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ANNOUNCED IRAQI
AND KURDISH FORCES HAVE
RECAPTURED A CRITICAL DAM IN
NORTHERN IRAQ FROM ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS.
AND HE MARKED THE ELIMINATION OF
SYRIA'S CHEMICAL WEAPONS
STOCKPILE, SAYING IT WAS IN
IMPORTANT ACHIEVEMENT.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, IT'S A COMMON BELIEF IN
SILICON VALLEY THAT ONLY THE
YOUNG CAN BE INNOVATORS.
BUT IN ORDER TO REALLY BOOST THE
ECONOMY, A BETTER STRATEGY WOULD
BE TO TEACH GRANDMOTHERS TO
CODE, ARGUES NEWSHOUR
CONTRIBUTOR VIVKEK WADHWA.
YOU CAN READ HIS FIVE TIPS FOR
EMPOWERING OLDER WORKERS, ON OUR
MAKING SENSE PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, HOW SHARIA LAW HAS
TAKEN HOLD IN INDONESIA
IN AN AREA DEVASTATED BY A
TSUNAMI.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.